S 2105 PCS

Calendar No. 323

112th CONGRESS

2d Session

S. 2105

To enhance the security and resiliency of the cyber and communications infrastructure of the United States.

IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

February 14, 2012

Mr. LIEBERMAN (for himself, Ms. COLLINS, Mr. ROCKEFELLER, and Mrs. FEINSTEIN) introduced the following bill; which was read the first time

February 15, 2012

Read the second time and placed on the calendar

A BILL

To enhance the security and resiliency of the cyber and communications infrastructure of the United States.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title- This Act may be cited as the `Cybersecurity Act of 2012'.

    (b) Table of Contents- The table of contents for this Act is as follows:

        Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.

        Sec. 2. Definitions.

TITLE I--PROTECTING CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE

        Sec. 101. Definitions and responsibilities.

        Sec. 102. Sector-by-sector cyber risk assessments.

        Sec. 103. Procedure for designation of covered critical infrastructure.

        Sec. 104. Sector-by-sector risk-based cybersecurity performance requirements.

        Sec. 105. Security of covered critical infrastructure.

        Sec. 106. Sector-specific agencies.

        Sec. 107. Protection of information.

        Sec. 108. Voluntary technical assistance.

        Sec. 109. Emergency planning.

        Sec. 110. International cooperation.

        Sec. 111. Effect on other laws.

TITLE II--PROTECTING GOVERNMENT NETWORKS

        Sec. 201. FISMA Reform.

        Sec. 202. Management of information technology.

        Sec. 203. Savings provisions.

TITLE III--CLARIFYING AND STRENGTHENING EXISTING ROLES AND AUTHORITIES

        Sec. 301. Consolidation of existing departmental cyber resources and authorities.

TITLE IV--EDUCATION, RECRUITMENT, AND WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT

        Sec. 401. Definitions.

        Sec. 402. National education and awareness campaign.

        Sec. 403. National cybersecurity competition and challenge.

        Sec. 404. Federal cyber scholarship-for-service program.

        Sec. 405. Assessment of cybersecurity Federal workforce.

        Sec. 406. Federal cybersecurity occupation classifications.

        Sec. 407. Training and education.

        Sec. 408. Cybersecurity incentives.

TITLE V--RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

        Sec. 501. Federal cybersecurity research and development.

        Sec. 502. Homeland security cybersecurity research and development.

TITLE VI--FEDERAL ACQUISITION RISK MANAGEMENT STRATEGY

        Sec. 601. Federal acquisition risk management strategy.

        Sec. 602. Amendments to Clinger-Cohen provisions to enhance agency planning for information security needs.

TITLE VII--INFORMATION SHARING

        Sec. 701. Affirmative authority to monitor and defend against cybersecurity threats.

        Sec. 702. Voluntary disclosure of cybersecurity threat indicators among private entities.

        Sec. 703. Cybersecurity exchanges.

        Sec. 704. Voluntary disclosure of cybersecurity threat indicators to a cybersecurity exchange.

        Sec. 705. Sharing of classified cybersecurity threat indicators.

        Sec. 706. Limitation on liability and good faith defense for cybersecurity activities.

        Sec. 707. Construction; Federal preemption.

        Sec. 708. Definitions.

TITLE VIII--PUBLIC AWARENESS REPORTS

        Sec. 801. Findings.

        Sec. 802. Report on cyber incidents against Government networks.

        Sec. 803. Reports on prosecution for cybercrime.

        Sec. 804. Report on research relating to secure domain.

        Sec. 805. Report on preparedness of Federal courts to promote cybersecurity.

        Sec. 806. Report on impediments to public awareness.

        Sec. 807. Report on protecting the electrical grid of the United States.

TITLE IX--INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION

        Sec. 901. Definitions.

        Sec. 902. Findings.

        Sec. 903. Sense of Congress.

        Sec. 904. Coordination of international cyber issues within the United States Government.

        Sec. 905. Consideration of cybercrime in foreign policy and foreign assistance programs.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:

        (1) COMMERCIAL INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PRODUCT- The term `commercial information technology product' means a commercial item that organizes or communicates information electronically.

        (2) COMMERCIAL ITEM- The term `commercial item' has the meaning given the term in section 103 of title 41, United States Code.

        (3) COVERED CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE- The term `covered critical infrastructure' means a system or asset designated by the Secretary as covered critical infrastructure in accordance with the procedure established under section 103.

        (4) COVERED SYSTEM OR ASSET- The term `covered system or asset' means a system or asset of covered critical infrastructure.

        (5) CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE- The term `critical infrastructure' has the meaning given that term in section 1016(e) of the USA PATRIOT Act (42 U.S.C. 5195c(e)).

        (6) DEPARTMENT- The term `Department' means the Department of Homeland Security.

        (7) FEDERAL AGENCY- The term `Federal agency' has the meaning given the term `agency' in section 3502 of title 44, United States Code.

        (8) FEDERAL INFORMATION INFRASTRUCTURE- The term `Federal information infrastructure'--

            (A) means information and information systems that are owned, operated, controlled, or licensed for use by, or on behalf of, any Federal agency, including information systems used or operated by another entity on behalf of a Federal agency; and

            (B) does not include--

                (i) a national security system; or

                (ii) information and information systems that are owned, operated, controlled, or licensed for use by, or on behalf of, the Department of Defense, a military department, or another element of the intelligence community.

        (9) INCIDENT- The term `incident' has the meaning given that term in section 3552 of title 44, United States Code, as added by section 201 of this Act.

        (10) INFORMATION INFRASTRUCTURE- The term `information infrastructure' means the underlying framework that information systems and assets rely on to process, transmit, receive, or store information electronically, including programmable electronic devices and communications networks and any associated hardware, software, or data.

        (11) INFORMATION SHARING AND ANALYSIS ORGANIZATION- The term `Information Sharing and Analysis Organization' has the meaning given that term in section 212 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 131).

        (12) INFORMATION SYSTEM- The term `information system' has the meaning given that term in section 3502 of title 44, United States Code.

        (13) INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION- The term `institution of higher education' has the meaning given that term in section 102 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1002).

        (14) INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY- The term `intelligence community' has the meaning given that term under section 3(4) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 401a(4)).

        (15) NATIONAL INFORMATION INFRASTRUCTURE- The term `national information infrastructure' means information and information systems--

            (A) that are owned, operated, or controlled, in whole or in part, within or from the United States; and

            (B) that are not owned, operated, controlled, or licensed for use by a Federal agency.

        (16) NATIONAL SECURITY SYSTEM- The term `national security system' has the meaning given that term in section 3552 of title 44, United States Code, as added by section 201 of this Act.

        (17) OWNER- The term `owner'--

            (A) means an entity that owns a covered system or asset; and

            (B) does not include a company contracted by the owner to manage, run, or operate a covered system or asset, or to provide a specific information technology product or service that is used or incorporated into a covered system or asset.

        (18) OPERATOR- The term `operator'--

            (A) means an entity that manages, runs, or operates, in whole or in part, the day-to-day operations of a covered system or asset; and

            (B) may include the owner of a covered system or asset.

        (19) SECRETARY- The term `Secretary' means the Secretary of Homeland Security.

TITLE I--PROTECTING CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE

SEC. 101. DEFINITIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES.

    (a) Definitions- In this title:

        (1) CYBER RISK- The term `cyber risk' means any risk to information infrastructure, including physical or personnel risks and security vulnerabilities, that, if exploited or not mitigated, could pose a significant risk of disruption to the operation of information infrastructure essential to the reliable operation of covered critical infrastructure.

        (2) SECTOR-SPECIFIC AGENCY- The term `sector-specific agency' means the relevant Federal agency responsible for infrastructure protection activities in a designated critical infrastructure sector or key resources category under the National Infrastructure Protection Plan, or any other appropriate Federal agency identified by the President after the date of enactment of this Act.

    (b) Responsibility of Owner- It shall be the responsibility of an owner to comply with the requirements of this Act.

SEC. 102. SECTOR-BY-SECTOR CYBER RISK ASSESSMENTS.

    (a) In General- The Secretary, in consultation with entities that own or operate critical infrastructure, the Critical Infrastructure Partnership Advisory Council, and appropriate Information Sharing and Analysis Organizations, and in coordination with the intelligence community, the Department of Defense, the Department of Commerce, sector-specific agencies and other Federal agencies with responsibilities for regulating the security of entities that own or operate critical infrastructure shall--

        (1) not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, conduct a top-level assessment of the cybersecurity threats, vulnerabilities, risks, and probability of a catastrophic incident across all critical infrastructure sectors to determine which sectors pose the greatest immediate risk, in order to guide the allocation of resources for the implementation of this Act; and

        (2) beginning with the highest priority sectors identified under paragraph (1), conduct, on an ongoing, sector-by-sector basis, cyber risk assessments of the critical infrastructure in a manner that--

            (A) uses state-of-the art threat modeling, simulation, and analysis techniques;

            (B) incorporates, as appropriate, any existing similar risk assessments; and

            (C) considers--

                (i) the actual or assessed threat, including consideration of adversary capabilities and intent, intrusion techniques, preparedness, target attractiveness, and deterrence capabilities;

                (ii) the extent and likelihood of death, injury, or serious adverse effects to human health and safety caused by damage or unauthorized access to critical infrastructure;

                (iii) the threat to or impact on national security caused by damage or unauthorized access to critical infrastructure;

                (iv) the extent to which damage or unauthorized access to critical infrastructure will disrupt the reliable operation of other critical infrastructure;

                (v) the harm to the economy that would result from damage or unauthorized access to critical infrastructure;

                (vi) the risk of national or regional catastrophic damage within the United States caused by damage or unauthorized access to information infrastructure located outside the United States;

                (vii) the overall preparedness and resilience of each sector against damage or unauthorized access to critical infrastructure, including the effectiveness of market forces at driving security innovation and secure practices; and

                (viii) any other risk-based security factors appropriate and necessary to protect public health and safety, critical infrastructure, or national and economic security.

    (b) Input of Owners and Operators-

        (1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary shall--

            (A) establish a process under which entities that own or operate critical infrastructure and other relevant private sector experts provide input into the risk assessments conducted under this section; and

            (B) seek and incorporate private sector expertise available through established public-private partnerships, including the Critical Infrastructure Partnership Advisory Council and appropriate Information Sharing and Analysis Organizations.

        (2) PROTECTION OF INFORMATION- Any information submitted as part of the process established under paragraph (1) shall be protected in accordance with section 107.

    (c) Methodologies for Assessing Information Security Risk- The Secretary and the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology, in consultation with entities that own or operate critical infrastructure and relevant private sector and academic experts, shall--

        (1) develop repeatable, qualitative, and quantitative methodologies for assessing information security risk; or

        (2) use methodologies described in paragraph (1) that are in existence on the date of enactment of this Act and make the methodologies publicly available.

    (d) Submission of Risk Assessments- The Secretary shall submit each risk assessment conducted under this section, in a classified or unclassified form as necessary, to--

        (1) the President;

        (2) appropriate Federal agencies; and

        (3) appropriate congressional committees.

SEC. 103. PROCEDURE FOR DESIGNATION OF COVERED CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE.

    (a) Responsibility for Designation of Covered Critical Infrastructure-

        (1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary, in consultation with entities that own or operate critical infrastructure, the Critical Infrastructure Partnership Advisory Council, appropriate Information Sharing and Analysis Organizations, and other appropriate representatives of State and local governments, shall establish a procedure for the designation of critical infrastructure, on a sector-by-sector basis, as covered critical infrastructure for the purposes of this Act.

        (2) DUTIES- In establishing the procedure under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall--

            (A) prioritize the efforts of the Department based on the prioritization established under section 102(a)(1);

            (B) incorporate, to the extent practicable, the input of entities that own or operate critical infrastructure, the Critical Infrastructure Partnership Advisory Council, appropriate Information Sharing and Analysis Organizations, and other appropriate representatives of the private sector and State and local governments;

            (C) coordinate with the head of the sector-specific agency with responsibility for critical infrastructure and the head of any Federal agency with responsibilities for regulating the security of critical infrastructure;

            (D) develop a mechanism for owners to submit information to assist the Secretary in making determinations under this section; and

            (E) periodically, but not less often than annually, review and update designations under this section.

    (b) Designation of Covered Critical Infrastructure-

        (1) GUIDELINES FOR DESIGNATION- In designating covered critical infrastructure for the purposes of this Act, the Secretary shall--

            (A) designate covered critical infrastructure on a sector-by-sector basis and at the system or asset level;

            (B) inform owners of the criteria used to identify covered critical infrastructure;

            (C) only designate a system or asset as covered critical infrastructure if damage or unauthorized access to that system or asset could reasonably result in--

                (i) the interruption of life-sustaining services, including energy, water, transportation, emergency services, or food, sufficient to cause--

                    (I) a mass casualty event that includes an extraordinary number of fatalities; or

                    (II) mass evacuations with a prolonged absence;

                (ii) catastrophic economic damage to the United States including--

                    (I) failure or substantial disruption of a United States financial market;

                    (II) incapacitation or sustained disruption of a transportation system; or

                    (III) other systemic, long-term damage to the United States economy; or

                (iii) severe degradation of national security or national security capabilities, including intelligence and defense functions; and

            (D) consider the sector-by-sector risk assessments developed in accordance with section 102.

        (2) LIMITATIONS- The Secretary may not designate as covered critical infrastructure under this section--

            (A) a system or asset based solely on activities protected by the first amendment to the Constitution of the United States;

            (B) an information technology product or service based solely on a finding that the product or service is capable of, or is actually, being used in covered critical infrastructure;

            (C) a commercial information technology product, including hardware and software; or

            (D) any service provided in support of a product specified in subparagraph (C), including installation services, maintenance services, repair services, training services, and any other services provided in support of the product.

        (3) NOTIFICATION OF IDENTIFICATION OF SYSTEM OR ASSET- Not later than 30 days after the Secretary designates a system or asset as covered critical infrastructure under this section, the Secretary shall notify the owner of the system or asset that was designated and the basis for the designation.

        (4) SELF-DESIGNATION OF SYSTEM OR ASSET AS COVERED CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE- The owner of a system or asset may request that the system or asset be designated as covered critical infrastructure under this section if the owner determines that the system or asset meets the criteria for designation.

        (5) SYSTEM OR ASSET NO LONGER COVERED CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE-

            (A) IN GENERAL- If the Secretary determines that any system or asset that was designated as covered critical infrastructure under this section no longer constitutes covered critical infrastructure, the Secretary shall promptly notify the owner of that system or asset of that determination.

            (B) SELF-DESIGNATION- If an owner determines that an asset or system previously self-designated as covered critical infrastructure under paragraph (4) no longer meets the criteria for designation, the owner shall notify the Secretary of this determination and submit to the redress process under subsection (c).

        (6) DEFINITION- In this subsection, the term `damage' has the meaning given that term in section 1030(e) of title 18, United States Code.

    (c) Redress-

        (1) IN GENERAL- Subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), the Secretary shall develop a mechanism, consistent with subchapter II of chapter 5 of title 5, United States Code, for an owner notified under subsection (b)(3) or for an owner that self-designates under subsection (b)(4) to request that the Secretary review--

            (A) the designation of a system or asset as covered critical infrastructure;

            (B) the rejection of the self-designation of an owner of a system or asset as covered critical infrastructure; or

            (C) a determination under subsection (b)(5)(B).

        (2) APPEAL TO FEDERAL COURT- A civil action seeking judicial review of a final agency action taken under the mechanism developed under paragraph (1) shall be filed in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia.

        (3) COMPLIANCE- An owner shall comply with this title relating to covered critical infrastructure until such time as the critical infrastructure is no longer designated as covered critical infrastructure, based on--

            (A) an appeal under paragraph (1);

            (B) a determination of the Secretary unrelated to an appeal; or

            (C) a final judgment entered in a civil action seeking judicial review brought in accordance with paragraph (2).

SEC. 104. SECTOR-BY-SECTOR RISK-BASED CYBERSECURITY PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) Purpose- The purpose of this section is to secure the critical infrastructure of the Nation while promoting and protecting private sector innovation in design and development of technology for the global market for commercial information technology products, including hardware and software and related products and services.

    (b) Performance Requirements- The Secretary, in consultation with owners and operators, the Critical Infrastructure Partnership Advisory Council, and appropriate Information Sharing and Analysis Organizations, and in coordination with the National Institute of Standards and Technology, the Director of the National Security Agency, sector-specific agencies, appropriate representatives from State and local governments, and other Federal agencies with responsibilities for regulating the security of covered critical infrastructure, shall identify or develop, on a sector-by-sector basis, risk-based cybersecurity performance requirements (referred to in this section as `performance requirements') that--

        (1) require owners to remediate or mitigate identified cyber risks and any associated consequences identified under section 102(a) or otherwise; and

        (2) do not permit any Federal employee or agency to--

            (A) regulate commercial information technology products, including hardware and software and related services, including installation services, maintenance services, repair services, training services, and any other services provided in support of the product;

            (B) require commercial information technology products, including hardware and software and related services, for use or non-use in covered critical infrastructure; or

            (C) regulate the design, development, manufacturing, or attributes of commercial information technology products, including hardware and software and related services, for use or non-use in covered critical infrastructure.

    (c) Limitation- If the Secretary determines that there are regulations in effect on the date of enactment of this Act that apply to covered critical infrastructure and that address some or all of the risks identified under section 102, the Secretary shall identify or develop performance requirements under this section only if the regulations do not require an appropriate level of security.

    (d) Identification and Development of Performance Requirements- In establishing the performance requirements under this section, the Secretary shall--

        (1) establish a process for entities that own or operate critical infrastructure, voluntary consensus standards development organizations, representatives of State and local government, and the private sector, including sector coordinating councils and appropriate Information Sharing and Analysis Organizations to propose performance requirements;

        (2) identify existing industry practices, standards, and guidelines; and

        (3) select and adopt performance requirements submitted under paragraph (1) or identified under paragraph (2) that satisfy other provisions of this section.

    (e) Requirement- If the Secretary determines that none of the performance requirements submitted or identified under paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (d) satisfy the other provisions of this section, the Secretary shall, in consultation with owners and operators, the Critical Infrastructure Partnership Advisory Council, and appropriate Information Sharing and Analysis Organizations, and in coordination with the National Institute of Standards and Technology, the Director of the National Security Agency, sector-specific agencies, and other Federal agencies with responsibilities for regulating the security of covered critical infrastructure, develop satisfactory performance requirements.

    (f) Exemption Authority-

        (1) IN GENERAL- The President, in consultation with the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, may exempt an appropriate part of covered critical infrastructure from the requirements of this title if the President determines that a sector-specific regulatory agency has sufficient specific requirements and enforcement mechanisms to effectively mitigate the risks identified under section 102.

        (2) RECONSIDERATION- The President may reconsider any exemption under paragraph (1) as appropriate.

    (g) Consideration- The Secretary, in establishing performance requirements under this section, shall take into consideration available resources and anticipated consequences of a cyber attack.

SEC. 105. SECURITY OF COVERED CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE.

    (a) In General- Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in consultation with owners and operators, and the Critical Infrastructure Partnership Advisory Council, and in coordination with sector-specific agencies and other Federal agencies with responsibilities for regulating the security of covered critical infrastructure, shall promulgate regulations to enhance the security of covered critical infrastructure against cyber risks.

    (b) Responsibilities- The regulations promulgated under this section shall establish procedures under which--

        (1) each owner--

            (A) is regularly informed of cyber risk assessments, identified cybersecurity threats, and the risk-based security performance requirements appropriate to the sector of the owner established under section 104;

            (B) selects and implements the cybersecurity measures the owner determines to be best suited to satisfy the risk-based cybersecurity performance requirements established under section 104;

            (C) develop or update continuity of operations and incident response plans; and

            (D) shall report, consistent with the protections in section 107, significant cyber incidents affecting covered critical infrastructure;

        (2) the Secretary and each Federal agency with responsibilities for regulating the security of covered critical infrastructure, is notified of the security measure or measures selected by an owner in accordance with paragraph (1)(B); and

        (3) the Secretary--

            (A) identifies, in consultation with owners and operators, cyber risks that are not capable of effective remediation or mitigation using available standards, industry practices or other available security measures;

            (B) provides owners the opportunity to develop practices or security measures to remediate or mitigate the cyber risks identified in section 102 without the prior approval of the Secretary and without affecting the compliance of the covered critical infrastructure with the requirements under this section;

            (C) in accordance with applicable law relating to the protection of trade secrets, permits owners and operators to report to the Secretary the development of effective practices or security measures to remediate or mitigate the cyber risks identified under section 102; and

            (D) shall develop, in conjunction with the Secretary of Defense and the Director of National Intelligence and in coordination with owners and operators, a procedure for ensuring that owners and operators are, to the maximum extent practicable and consistent with the protection of sources and methods, informed of relevant real-time threat information.

    (c) Enforcement-

        (1) REQUIREMENTS- The regulations promulgated under this section shall establish procedures that--

            (A) require each owner--

                (i) to certify, on an annual basis, in writing to the Secretary and the head of the Federal agency with responsibilities for regulating the security of the covered critical infrastructure whether the owner has developed and effectively implemented security measures sufficient to satisfy the risk-based security performance requirements established under section 104; or

                (ii) to submit a third-party assessment in accordance with subsection (d), on an annual basis;

            (B) provide for civil penalties for any person who--

                (i) violates this section; and

                (ii) fails to remediate such violation in an appropriate timeframe; and

            (C) do not confer upon any person, except the Federal agency with responsibilities for regulating the security of the covered critical infrastructure and the Secretary, a right of action against an owner or operator to enforce any provision of this section.

        (2) PROPOSED SECURITY MEASURES- An owner may select any security measures that satisfy the risk-based security performance requirements established under section 104.

        (3) RECOMMENDED SECURITY MEASURES- Upon request from an owner or operator, the Secretary may recommend a specific security measure that the Secretary believes will satisfy the risk-based security performance requirements established under section 104.

        (4) SECURITY AND PERFORMANCE-BASED EXEMPTIONS-

            (A) IN GENERAL- The Secretary shall develop a process for an owner to demonstrate that--

                (i) a covered system or asset is sufficiently secured against the risks identified in section 102; or

                (ii) compliance with risk-based performance requirements developed under section 104 would not substantially improve the security of the covered system or asset.

            (B) EXEMPTION AUTHORITY- Upon a determination by the Secretary that a covered system or asset is sufficiently secured against the risks identified in section 102, or that compliance with risk based performance requirements developed under section 104 would not substantially improve the security of the system or asset, the Secretary may not require the owner to select or implement cybersecurity measures or submit an annual certification or third party assessment as required under this Act.

            (C) REQUIREMENT- The Secretary shall require an owner that was exempted under subparagraph (B) to demonstrate that the covered system or asset of the owner is sufficiently secured against the risks identified in section 102, or that compliance with risk based performance requirements developed under section 104 would not substantially improve the security of the system or asset--

                (i) not less than once every 3 years; or

                (ii) if the Secretary has reason to believe that the covered system or asset no longer meets the exemption qualifications under subparagraph (B).

        (5) ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS- An action to enforce any regulation promulgated pursuant to this section shall be initiated by--

            (A) the Federal agency with responsibilities for regulating the security of the covered critical infrastructure, in consultation with the Secretary; or

            (B) the Secretary, when--

                (i) the covered critical infrastructure is not subject to regulation by another Federal agency;

                (ii) the head of the Federal agency with responsibilities for regulating the security of the covered critical infrastructure requests the Secretary take such action; or

                (iii) the Federal agency with responsibilities for regulating the security of the covered critical infrastructure fails to initiate such action after a request by the Secretary.

    (d) Assessments-

        (1) THIRD-PARTY ASSESSMENTS- The regulations promulgated under this section shall establish procedures for third-party private entities to conduct assessments that use reliable, repeatable, performance-based evaluations and metrics to--

            (A) assess the implementation of the selected security measures;

            (B) assess the effectiveness of the security measure or measures implemented by the owner in satisfying the risk-based security performance requirements established under section 104;

            (C) require that third party assessors--

                (i) be certified by the Secretary, in consultation with the head of any Federal agency with responsibilities for regulating the security of covered critical infrastructure, after completing a proficiency program established by the Secretary in consultation with owners and operators, the Critical Infrastructure Partnership Advisory Council, appropriate Information Sharing and Analysis Organizations, and in coordination with the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology, and relevant Federal agencies;

                (ii) undergo regular retraining and certification;

                (iii) provide the findings of the third party assessors to the owners and operators; and

                (iv) submit each independent assessment to the owner, the Secretary, and to the Federal agency with responsibilities for regulating the security of the covered critical infrastructure.

        (2) OTHER ASSESSMENTS- The regulations promulgated under this section shall establish procedures under which the Secretary--

            (A) may perform cybersecurity assessments of selected covered critical infrastructure, in consultation with relevant agencies, based on--

                (i) the specific cyber risks affecting or potentially affecting the information infrastructure of the specific system or asset constituting covered critical infrastructure;

                (ii) any reliable intelligence or other information indicating a cyber risk to the information infrastructure of the specific system or asset constituting covered critical infrastructure;

                (iii) actual knowledge or reasonable suspicion that an owner is not in compliance with risk-based security performance requirements established under section 104; or

                (iv) such other risk-based factors as identified by the Secretary; and

            (B) may use the resources of any relevant Federal agency with the concurrence of the head of such agency;

            (C) to the extent practicable uses government and private sector information security assessment programs that were in existence on the date of enactment of this Act to conduct assessments; and

            (D) provides copies of any Federal Government assessments to the owner of the covered system or asset.

        (3) ACCESS TO INFORMATION-

            (A) IN GENERAL- For the purposes of an assessment conducted under paragraph (1) or (2), an owner or operator shall provide an assessor any reasonable access necessary to complete the assessment.

            (B) PROTECTION OF INFORMATION- Information provided to the Secretary, the Secretary's designee, or any assessor during the course of an assessment under this section shall be protected from disclosure in accordance with section 107.

    (e) Limitations on Civil Liability-

        (1) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in paragraph (2), in any civil action for damages directly caused by an incident related to a cyber risk identified under section 102, an owner or operator shall not be liable for any punitive damages intended to punish or deter if the owner or operator--

            (A) has implemented security measures, or a combination thereof, that satisfy the security performance requirements established under section 104;

            (B) has undergone successful assessments, submitted an annual certification or third party assessment required by subsection (c)(1), or been granted an exemption in accordance with subsection (c)(4); and

            (C) is in substantial compliance with the appropriate risk based cybersecurity performance requirements at the time of the incident related to that cyber risk.

        (2) LIMITATION- Paragraph (1) shall only apply to harm directly caused by the incident related to the cyber risk and shall not apply to damages caused by any additional or intervening acts or omissions by the owner or operator.

SEC. 106. SECTOR-SPECIFIC AGENCIES.

    (a) In General- The head of each sector-specific agency and the head of any Federal agency that is not a sector-specific agency with responsibilities for regulating the security of covered critical infrastructure shall coordinate with the Secretary on any activities of the sector-specific agency or Federal agency that relate to the efforts of the agency regarding the cybersecurity and resiliency to cyber attack of critical infrastructure and covered critical infrastructure, within or under the supervision of the agency.

    (b) Duplicative Reporting Requirements-

        (1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary shall coordinate with the head of each sector-specific agency and the head of any Federal agency that is not a sector-specific agency with responsibilities for regulating the security of covered critical infrastructure to determine whether reporting requirements in effect on the date of enactment of this Act substantially fulfill any reporting requirements described in this title.

        (2) PRIOR REQUIRED REPORTS- If the Secretary determines that a report that was required under a regulatory regime in existence on the date of enactment of this Act substantially satisfies a reporting requirement under this title, the Secretary shall use such report and may not require an owner or operator to submit an additional report.

        (3) COORDINATION- The Secretary shall coordinate with the head of each sector-specific agency and the head of any Federal agency that is not a sector-specific agency with responsibilities for regulating the security of covered critical infrastructure to eliminate any duplicate reporting or compliance requirements relating to the security or resiliency of critical infrastructure and covered critical infrastructure, within or under the supervision of the agency.

    (c) Requirements-

        (1) IN GENERAL- To the extent that the head of each sector-specific agency and the head of any Federal agency that is not a sector-specific agency with responsibilities for regulating the security of covered critical infrastructure has the authority to establish regulations, rules, or requirements or other required actions that are applicable to the security of critical infrastructure and covered critical infrastructure, the head of the agency shall--

            (A) notify the Secretary in a timely fashion of the intent to establish the regulations, rules, requirements, or other required actions;

            (B) coordinate with the Secretary to ensure that the regulations, rules, requirements, or other required actions are consistent with, and do not conflict or impede, the activities of the Secretary under this title; and

            (C) in coordination with the Secretary, ensure that the regulations, rules, requirements, or other required actions are implemented, as they relate to covered critical infrastructure, in accordance with subsection (a).

        (2) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION- Nothing in this section shall be construed to provide additional authority for any sector-specific agency or any Federal agency that is not a sector-specific agency with responsibilities for regulating the security of critical infrastructure or covered critical infrastructure to establish standards or other measures that are applicable to the security of critical infrastructure not otherwise authorized by law.

SEC. 107. PROTECTION OF INFORMATION.

    (a) Definition- In this section, the term `covered information'--

        (1) means--

            (A) any information that constitutes a privileged or confidential trade secret or commercial or financial transaction that is appropriately marked at the time it is provided by entities that own or operate critical infrastructure in sector-by-sector risk assessments conducted under section 102;

            (B) any information required to be submitted by owners and operators under section 105; and

            (C) any information submitted by State and local governments, private entities, and international partners of the United States regarding threats, vulnerabilities, risks, and incidents affecting--

                (i) the Federal information infrastructure;

                (ii) information infrastructure that is owned, operated, controlled, or licensed for use by, or on behalf of, the Department of Defense, a military department, or another element of the intelligence community; or

                (iii) critical infrastructure; and

        (2) does not include any information described under paragraph (1), if that information is submitted to--

            (A) conceal violations of law, inefficiency, or administrative error;

            (B) prevent embarrassment to a person, organization, or agency; or

            (C) interfere with competition in the private sector.

    (b) Voluntarily Shared Critical Infrastructure Information- Covered information submitted in accordance with this section shall be treated as voluntarily shared critical infrastructure information under section 214 of the Homeland Security Act (6 U.S.C. 133), except that the requirement of such section 214 that the information be voluntarily submitted, including the requirement for an express statement, shall not be required for protection of information under this section to apply.

    (c) Guidelines-

        (1) IN GENERAL- Subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary shall develop and issue guidelines, in consultation with the Attorney General and the Critical Infrastructure Partnership Advisory Council, appropriate Information Sharing and Analysis Organizations, as necessary to implement this section.

        (2) REQUIREMENTS- The guidelines developed under this section shall--

            (A) include provisions for the sharing of information among governmental and nongovernmental officials and entities in furtherance of carrying out the authorities and responsibilities of the Secretary;

            (B) be consistent, to the maximum extent possible, with policy guidance and implementation standards developed by the National Archives and Records Administration for controlled unclassified information, including with respect to marking, safeguarding, dissemination, and dispute resolution; and

            (C) describe, with as much detail as possible, the categories and type of information entities should voluntarily submit.

    (d) Process for Reporting Security Threats, Vulnerabilities, Risks, and Incidents-

        (1) ESTABLISHMENT OF PROCESS- The Secretary shall establish through regulation, and provide information to the public regarding, a process by which any person may submit a report to the Secretary regarding cybersecurity threats, vulnerabilities, risks, and incidents affecting--

            (A) the Federal information infrastructure;

            (B) information infrastructure that is owned, operated, controlled, or licensed for use by, or on behalf of, the Department of Defense, a military department, or another element of the intelligence community; or

            (C) critical infrastructure.

        (2) ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF RECEIPT- If a report submitted under paragraph (1) includes the identity of the person making the report, the Secretary shall respond promptly to the person and acknowledge receipt of the report.

        (3) STEPS TO ADDRESS PROBLEM- Consistent with existing authority, the Secretary shall review and consider the information provided in any report submitted under paragraph (1) and, at the sole, unreviewable discretion of the Secretary, determine what, if any, steps are necessary or appropriate to address any threats, vulnerabilities, risks, and incidents identified.

        (4) DISCLOSURE OF IDENTITY-

            (A) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in subparagraph (B), or with the written consent of the person, the Secretary may not disclose the identity of a person who has provided information described in paragraph (1).

            (B) REFERRAL TO THE ATTORNEY GENERAL-

                (i) IN GENERAL- The Secretary shall disclose to the Attorney General the identity of a person who has provided information described in paragraph (1) if the matter is referred to the Attorney General for enforcement.

                (ii) NOTICE- The Secretary shall provide reasonable advance notice to the person described in clause (i) if disclosure of that person's identity is to occur, unless such notice would risk compromising a criminal or civil enforcement investigation or proceeding.

    (e) Rules of Construction- Nothing in this section shall be construed to--

        (1) limit or otherwise affect the right, ability, duty, or obligation of any entity to use or disclose any information of that entity, including in the conduct of any judicial or other proceeding;

        (2) prevent the classification of information submitted under this section if that information meets the standards for classification under Executive Order 12958, or any successor thereto, or affect measures and controls relating to the protection of classified information as prescribed by Federal statute or under Executive Order 12958, or any successor thereto;

        (3) limit the right of an individual to make any disclosure--

            (A) protected or authorized under section 2302(b)(8) or 7211 of title 5, United States Code;

            (B) to an appropriate official of information that the individual reasonably believes evidences a violation of any law, rule, or regulation, gross mismanagement, or substantial and specific danger to public health, safety, or security, and that is protected under any Federal or State law (other than those referenced in subparagraph (A)) that shields the disclosing individual against retaliation or discrimination for having made the disclosure if such disclosure is not specifically prohibited by law and if such information is not specifically required by Executive order to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or the conduct of foreign affairs; or

            (C) to the Special Counsel, the Inspector General of an agency, or any other employee designated by the head of an agency to receive similar disclosures;

        (4) prevent the Secretary from using information required to be submitted under this Act for enforcement of this title, including enforcement proceedings subject to appropriate safeguards;

        (5) authorize information to be withheld from Congress, the Comptroller General, or the Inspector General of the Department;

        (6) affect protections afforded to trade secrets under any other provision of law; or

        (7) create a private right of action for enforcement of any provision of this section.

    (f) Audit-

        (1) IN GENERAL- Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Inspector General of the Department shall conduct an audit of the management of information submitted under this section and report the findings to appropriate committees of Congress.

        (2) CONTENTS- The audit under paragraph (1) shall include assessments of--

            (A) whether the information is adequately safeguarded against inappropriate disclosure;

            (B) the processes for marking and disseminating the information and resolving any disputes;

            (C) how the information is used for the purposes of this section, and whether that use is effective;

            (D) whether information sharing has been effective to fulfill the purposes of this section;

            (E) whether the kinds of information submitted have been appropriate and useful, or overbroad or overnarrow;

            (F) whether the information protections allow for adequate accountability and transparency of the regulatory, enforcement, and other aspects of implementing this title; and

            (G) any other factors at the discretion of the Inspector General.

SEC. 108. VOLUNTARY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.

    Subject to the availability of resources, in accordance with applicable law relating to the protection of trade secrets, and at the discretion of the Secretary, the Secretary shall provide voluntary technical assistance at the request of an owner or operator of covered critical infrastructure, to assist the owner or operator in meeting the requirements of section 105, including implementing required security or emergency measures, restoring the critical infrastructure in the event of destruction or serious disruption, and developing emergency response plans.

SEC. 109. EMERGENCY PLANNING.

    (a) Emergency Planning- In partnership with owners and operators, the Secretary, in coordination with the heads of sector-specific agencies and the heads of other Federal agencies with responsibilities for regulating the security of covered critical infrastructure, shall exercise response and restoration plans, including plans required under section 105(b) to--

        (1) assess performance and improve the capabilities and procedures of government and private sector entities to respond to a major cyber incident; and

        (2) clarify specific roles, responsibilities, and authorities of government and private sector entities when responding to a major cyber incident.

SEC. 110. INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION.

    (a) In General- The Secretary, in coordination with the Secretary of State or the head of the sector-specific agencies and the head of any Federal agency with responsibilities for regulating the security of covered critical infrastructure, shall--

        (1) consistent with the protection of intelligence sources and methods and other sensitive matters, inform the owner or operator of information infrastructure located outside the United States the disruption of which could result in national or regional catastrophic damage within the United States and the government of the country in which the information infrastructure is located of any cyber risks to such information infrastructure; and

        (2) coordinate with the government of the country in which such information infrastructure is located and, as appropriate, the owner or operator of the information infrastructure regarding the implementation of security measures or other measures to the information infrastructure to mitigate or remediate cyber risks.

    (b) International Agreements- The Secretary, in coordination with the Secretary of State, including in particular with the interpretation of international agreements, shall perform the functions prescribed by this section consistent with applicable international agreements.

SEC. 111. EFFECT ON OTHER LAWS.

    (a) Preemption of State Cybersecurity Laws- This Act shall supersede any statute, provision of a statute, regulation, or rule of a State or political subdivision of a State that expressly requires comparable cybersecurity practices to protect covered critical infrastructure.

    (b) Preservation of Other State Law- Except as expressly provided in subsection (a) and section 105(e), nothing in this Act shall be construed to preempt the applicability of any other State law or requirement.

TITLE II--PROTECTING GOVERNMENT NETWORKS

SEC. 201. FISMA REFORM.

    (a) In General- Chapter 35 of title 44, United States Code, is amended by striking subchapters II and III and inserting the following:

`SUBCHAPTER II--INFORMATION SECURITY

`Sec. 3551. Purposes

    `The purposes of this subchapter are to--

        `(1) provide a comprehensive framework for ensuring the effectiveness of information security controls over information resources that support Federal operations and assets;

        `(2) recognize the highly networked nature of the Federal computing environment and provide effective governmentwide management of policies, directives, standards, and guidelines, as well as effective and nimble oversight of and response to information security risks, including coordination of information security efforts throughout the Federal civilian, national security, and law enforcement communities;

        `(3) provide for development and maintenance of controls required to protect agency information and information systems and contribute to the overall improvement of agency information security posture; and

        `(4) provide a mechanism to improve and continuously monitor the security of agency information security programs and systems through a focus on continuous monitoring of agency information systems and streamlined reporting requirements rather than overly prescriptive manual reporting.

`Sec. 3552. Definitions

    `(a) In General- Except as provided under subsection (b), the definitions under section 3502 (including the definitions of the terms `agency' and `information system') shall apply to this subchapter.

    `(b) Other Terms- In this subchapter:

        `(1) ADEQUATE SECURITY- The term `adequate security' means security commensurate with the risk and impact resulting from the unauthorized access to or loss, misuse, destruction, or modification of information.

        `(2) CONTINUOUS MONITORING- The term `continuous monitoring' means the ongoing real time or near real-time process used to determine if the complete set of planned, required, and deployed security controls within an information system continue to be effective over time in light of rapidly changing information technology and threat development. To the maximum extent possible, this also requires automation of that process to enable cost effective, efficient, and consistent monitoring and provide a more dynamic view of the security state of those deployed controls.

        `(3) INCIDENT- The term `incident' means an occurrence that--

            `(A) actually or imminently jeopardizes, without lawful authority, the integrity, confidentiality, or availability of information or an information system; or

            `(B) constitutes a violation or imminent threat of violation of law, security policies, security procedures, or acceptable use policies.

        `(4) INFORMATION SECURITY- The term `information security' means protecting information and information systems from unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction in order to provide--

            `(A) integrity, which means guarding against improper information modification or destruction, and includes ensuring nonrepudiation and authenticity;

            `(B) confidentiality, which means preserving authorized restrictions on access and disclosure, including means for protecting personal privacy and proprietary information; and

            `(C) availability, which means ensuring timely and reliable access to and use of information.

        `(5) INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY- The term `information technology' has the meaning given that term in section 11101 of title 40.

        `(6) NATIONAL SECURITY SYSTEM-

            `(A) IN GENERAL- The term `national security system' means any information system (including any telecommunications system) used or operated by an agency or by a contractor of an agency, or other organization on behalf of an agency--

                `(i) the function, operation, or use of which--

                    `(I) involves intelligence activities;

                    `(II) involves cryptologic activities related to national security;

                    `(III) involves command and control of military forces;

                    `(IV) involves equipment that is an integral part of a weapon or weapons system; or

                    `(V) subject to subparagraph (B), is critical to the direct fulfillment of military or intelligence missions; or

                `(ii) that is protected at all times by procedures established for information that have been specifically authorized under criteria established by an Executive order or an Act of Congress to be kept classified in the interest of national defense or foreign policy.

            `(B) EXCLUSION- Subparagraph (A)(i)(V) does not include a system that is to be used for routine administrative and business applications (including payroll, finance, logistics, and personnel management applications).

        `(7) SECRETARY- The term `Secretary' means the Secretary of Homeland Security.

        `(8) THREAT ASSESSMENT- The term `threat assessment' means the real time or near real time process of formally evaluating the degree of threat to an information system or enterprise and describing the nature of the threat. Threat assessments consist of identifying threat sources, possible threat events, vulnerabilities within a system or network environment, determining the likelihood that an identified threat will occur and the possible adverse impacts of such an occurrence. This requires automation of that process and rapid sharing of emerging threat information among government agencies.

`Sec. 3553. Federal information security authority and coordination

    `(a) In General- Except as provided in subsections (f) and (g), the Secretary shall oversee agency information security policies and practices, including the development and oversight of information security policies and directives and compliance with this subchapter.

    `(b) Duties- The Secretary shall--

        `(1) develop, issue, and oversee the implementation of information security policies and directives, which shall be compulsory and binding on agencies to the extent determined appropriate by the Secretary, including--

            `(A) policies and directives consistent with the standards promulgated under section 11331 of title 40 to identify and provide information security protections that are commensurate with the risk and impact resulting from the unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction of--

                `(i) information collected, created, processed, stored, disseminated, or otherwise used or maintained by or on behalf of an agency; or

                `(ii) information systems used or operated by an agency or by a contractor of an agency or other organization on behalf of an agency;

            `(B) minimum operational requirements for network operations centers and security operations centers of agencies to facilitate the protection of and provide common situational awareness for all agency information and information systems;

            `(C) reporting requirements, consistent with relevant law, regarding information security incidents;

            `(D) requirements for agencywide information security programs, including continuous monitoring of information security;

            `(E) performance requirements and metrics for the security of agency information systems;

            `(F) training requirements to ensure that agencies are able to fully and timely comply with directions issued by the Secretary under this subchapter;

            `(G) training requirements regarding privacy, civil rights, civil liberties, and information oversight for agency information security employees;

            `(H) requirements for the annual reports to the Secretary under section 3554(c); and

            `(I) any other information security requirements as determined by the Secretary;

        `(2) review agency information security programs required to be developed under section 3554(b);

        `(3) develop and conduct targeted risk assessments and operational evaluations for agency information and information systems in consultation with the heads of other agencies or governmental and private entities that own and operate such systems, that may include threat, vulnerability, and impact assessments and penetration testing;

        `(4) operate consolidated intrusion detection, prevention, or other protective capabilities and use associated countermeasures for the purpose of protecting agency information and information systems from information security threats;

        `(5) in conjunction with other agencies and the private sector, assess and foster the development of information security technologies and capabilities for use across multiple agencies;

        `(6) designate an entity to receive reports and information about information security incidents, threats, and vulnerabilities affecting agency information systems;

        `(7) provide incident detection, analysis, mitigation, and response information and remote or on-site technical assistance to the heads of agencies; and

        `(8) coordinate with appropriate agencies and officials to ensure, to the maximum extent feasible, that policies and directives issued under paragraph (1) are complementary with--

            `(A) standards and guidelines developed for national security systems; and

            `(B) policies and directives issues by the Secretary of Defense, Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, and Director of National Intelligence under subsection (g)(1).

    `(c) Issuing Policies and Directives- When issuing policies and directives under subsection (b), the Secretary shall consider any applicable standards or guidelines developed by the National Institute of Standards and Technology and issued by the Secretary of Commerce under section 11331 of title 40. The Secretary shall consult with the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology when such policies and directives implement standards or guidelines developed by National Institute of Standards and Technology. To the maximum extent feasible, such standards and guidelines shall be complementary with standards and guidelines developed for national security systems.

    `(d) Communications and System Traffic-

        `(1) IN GENERAL- Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in carrying out the responsibilities under paragraphs (3) and (4) of subsection (b), if the Secretary makes a certification described in paragraph (2), the Secretary may acquire, intercept, retain, use, and disclose communications and other system traffic that are transiting to or from or stored on agency information systems and deploy countermeasures with regard to the communications and system traffic.

        `(2) CERTIFICATION- A certification described in this paragraph is a certification by the Secretary that--

            `(A) the acquisitions, interceptions, and countermeasures are reasonably necessary for the purpose of protecting agency information systems from information security threats;

            `(B) the content of communications will be collected and retained only when the communication is associated with a known or reasonably suspected information security threat, and communications and system traffic will not be subject to the operation of a countermeasure unless associated with the threats;

            `(C) information obtained under activities authorized under this subsection will only be retained, used, or disclosed to protect agency information systems from information security threats, mitigate against such threats, or, with the approval of the Attorney General, for law enforcement purposes when the information is evidence of a crime which has been, is being, or is about to be committed;

            `(D) notice has been provided to users of agency information systems concerning the potential for acquisition, interception, retention, use, and disclosure of communications and other system traffic; and

            `(E) the activities are implemented pursuant to policies and procedures governing the acquisition, interception, retention, use, and disclosure of communications and other system traffic that have been reviewed and approved by the Attorney General.

        `(3) PRIVATE ENTITIES- The Secretary may enter into contracts or other agreements, or otherwise request and obtain the assistance of, private entities that provide electronic communication or information security services to acquire, intercept, retain, use, and disclose communications and other system traffic in accordance with this subsection.

    `(e) Directions to Agencies-

        `(1) AUTHORITY-

            `(A) IN GENERAL- Notwithstanding section 3554, and subject to subparagraph (B), in response to a known or reasonably suspected information security threat, vulnerability, or incident that represents a substantial threat to the information security of an agency, the Secretary may direct other agency heads to take any lawful action with respect to the operation of the information systems, including those owned or operated by another entity on behalf of an agency, that collect, process, store, transmit, disseminate, or otherwise maintain agency information, for the purpose of protecting the information system from or mitigating an information security threat.

            `(B) EXCEPTION- The authorities of the Secretary under this subsection shall not apply to a system described in paragraph (2), (3), or (4) of subsection (g).

        `(2) PROCEDURES FOR USE OF AUTHORITY- The Secretary shall--

            `(A) in coordination with the Director of the Office of Management and Budget and in consultation with Federal contractors, as appropriate, establish procedures governing the circumstances under which a directive may be issued under this subsection, which shall include--

                `(i) thresholds and other criteria;

                `(ii) privacy and civil liberties protections; and

                `(iii) providing notice to potentially affected third parties;

            `(B) specify the reasons for the required action and the duration of the directive;

            `(C) minimize the impact of directives under this subsection by--

                `(i) adopting the least intrusive means possible under the circumstances to secure the agency information systems; and

                `(ii) limiting directives to the shortest period practicable; and

            `(D) notify the Director of the Office of Management and Budget and head of any affected agency immediately upon the issuance of a directive under this subsection.

        `(3) IMMINENT THREATS-

            `(A) IN GENERAL- If the Secretary determines that there is an imminent threat to agency information systems and a directive under this subsection is not reasonably likely to result in a timely response to the threat, the Secretary may authorize the use of protective capabilities under the control of the Secretary for communications or other system traffic transiting to or from or stored on an agency information system without prior consultation with the affected agency for the purpose of ensuring the security of the information or information system or other agency information systems.

            `(B) LIMITATION ON DELEGATION- The authority under this paragraph may not be delegated to an official in a position lower than Assistant Secretary.

            `(C) NOTICE- The Secretary or designee of the Secretary shall immediately notify the Director of the Office of Management and Budget and the head and chief information officer (or equivalent official) of each affected agency of--

                `(i) any action taken under this subsection; and

                `(ii) the reasons for and duration and nature of the action.

            `(D) OTHER LAW- The actions of the Secretary under this paragraph shall be consistent with applicable law.

        `(4) LIMITATION- The Secretary may direct or authorize lawful action or protective capability under this subsection only to--

            `(A) protect agency information from unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction; or

            `(B) require the remediation of or protect against identified information security risks with respect to--

                `(i) information collected or maintained by or on behalf of an agency; or

                `(ii) that portion of an information system used or operated by an agency or by a contractor of an agency or other organization on behalf of an agency.

    `(f) National Security Systems-

        `(1) IN GENERAL- This section shall not apply to a national security system.

        `(2) INFORMATION SECURITY- Information security policies, directives, standards, and guidelines for national security systems shall be overseen as directed by the President and, in accordance with that direction, carried out under the authority of the heads of agencies that operate or exercise authority over national security systems.

    `(g) Delegation of Authorities-

        `(1) IN GENERAL- The authorities of the Secretary described in paragraphs (1), (2), (3), and (4) of subsection (b) shall be delegated to--

            `(A) the Secretary of Defense in the case of systems described in paragraph (2);

            `(B) the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency in the case of systems described in paragraph (3); and

            `(C) the Director of National Intelligence in the case of systems described in paragraph (4).

        `(2) DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE- The systems described in this paragraph are systems that are operated by the Department of Defense, a contractor of the Department of Defense, or another entity on behalf of the Department of Defense that process any information the unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction of which would have a debilitating impact on the mission of the Department of Defense.

        `(3) CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY- The systems described in this paragraph are systems that are operated by the Central Intelligence Agency, a contractor of the Central Intelligence Agency, or another entity on behalf of the Central Intelligence Agency that process any information the unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction of which would have a debilitating impact on the mission of the Central Intelligence Agency.

        `(4) OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE- The systems described in this paragraph are systems that are operated by the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, a contractor of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, or another entity on behalf of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence that process any information the unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction of which would have a debilitating impact on the mission of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence.

        `(5) INTEGRATION OF INFORMATION- The Secretary of Defense, the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, and the Director of National Intelligence shall carry out their responsibilities under this subsection in coordination with the Secretary and share relevant information in a timely manner with the Secretary relating to the security of agency information and information systems, including systems described in paragraphs (2), (3), and (4), to enable the Secretary to carry out the responsibilities set forth in this section and to maintain comprehensive situational awareness regarding information security incidents, threats, and vulnerabilities affecting agency information systems, consistent with standards and guidelines for national security systems, issued in accordance with law and as directed by the President.

`Sec. 3554. Agency responsibilities

    `(a) In General- The head of each agency shall--

        `(1) be responsible for--

            `(A) providing information security protections commensurate with the risk resulting from unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction of--

                `(i) information collected, created, processed, stored, disseminated, or otherwise used or maintained by or on behalf of the agency; or

                `(ii) information systems used or operated by the agency or by a contractor of the agency or other organization on behalf of the agency;

            `(B) complying with this subchapter, including--

                `(i) the policies and directives issued under section 3553, including any directions under section 3553(e); and

                `(ii) information security policies, directives, standards, and guidelines for national security systems issued in accordance with law and as directed by the President;

            `(C) complying with the requirements of the information security standards prescribed under section 11331 of title 40, including any required security configuration checklists; and

            `(D) ensuring that information security management processes are integrated with agency strategic and operational planning processes;

        `(2) ensure that senior agency officials provide information security for the information and information systems that support the operations and assets under the control of the officials, including through--

            `(A) assessing, with a frequency commensurate with risk, the risk and impact that could result from the unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction of the information or information systems;

            `(B) determining the levels of information security appropriate to protect the information and information systems in accordance with the policies and directives issued under section 3553(b) and standards prescribed under section 11331 of title 40;

            `(C) implementing policies, procedures, and capabilities to reduce risks to an acceptable level in a cost-effective manner;

            `(D) security testing and evaluation, including continuously monitoring the effective implementation of information security controls and techniques, threats, vulnerabilities, assets, and other aspects of information security as appropriate; and

            `(E) reporting information about information security incidents, threats, and vulnerabilities in a timely manner as required under policies and procedures established under subsection (b)(7);

        `(3) assess and maintain the resiliency of information systems critical to the mission and operations of the agency;

        `(4) delegate to the chief information officer or equivalent official (or to a senior agency official who reports to the chief information officer or equivalent official) the authority to ensure and primary responsibility for ensuring compliance with this subchapter, including--

            `(A) overseeing the establishment and maintenance of an agencywide security operations capability that on a continuous basis can--

                `(i) detect, report, respond to, contain, and mitigate information security incidents that impair adequate security of the agency information and information systems in a timely manner and in accordance with the policies and directives issued under section 3553(b); and

                `(ii) report any information security incident described under clause (i) to the entity designated under section 3553(b)(6);

            `(B) developing, maintaining, and overseeing an agencywide information security program as required under subsection (b);

            `(C) developing, maintaining, and overseeing information security policies, procedures, and control techniques to address all applicable requirements, including those issued under section 3553 and section 11331 of title 40;

            `(D) training and overseeing employees and contractors of the agency with significant responsibilities for information security with respect to such responsibilities; and

            `(E) assisting senior agency officials concerning their responsibilities under paragraph (2);

        `(5) the agency has trained and obtained security clearances for an adequate number of employees to assist the agency in complying with this subchapter, including the policies and directives issued under section 3553(b);

        `(6) ensure that the chief information officer (or other senior agency official designated under paragraph (4)), in coordination with other senior agency officials, reports to the head of the agency on the effectiveness of the agency information security program, including the progress of remedial actions;

        `(7) ensure that the chief information officer (or other senior agency official designated under paragraph (4))--

            `(A) possesses the necessary qualifications to administer the duties of the official under this subchapter; and

            `(B) has information security duties as a primary duty of the official; and

        `(8) ensure that senior agency officials (including component chief information officers or equivalent officials) carry out responsibilities under this subchapter as directed by the official delegated authority under paragraph (4).

    `(b) Agency Program- The head of each agency shall develop, document, and implement an agencywide information security program, which shall be reviewed under section 3553(b)(2), to provide information security for the information and information systems that support the operations and assets of the agency, including those provided or managed by another agency, contractor, or other source, which shall include--

        `(1) the development, execution, and maintenance of a risk management strategy for information security that--

            `(A) considers information security threats, vulnerabilities, and consequences;

            `(B) includes periodic assessments and reporting of risk, with a frequency commensurate with risk and impact;

        `(2) policies and procedures that--

            `(A) are based on the risk management strategy and assessment results required under paragraph (1);

            `(B) reduce information security risks to an acceptable level in a cost-effective manner;

            `(C) ensure that cost-effective and adequate information security is addressed throughout the life cycle of each agency information system; and

            `(D) ensure compliance with--

                `(i) this subchapter;

                `(ii) the information security policies and directives issued under section 3553(b); and

                `(iii) any other applicable requirements;

        `(3) subordinate plans for providing adequate information security for networks, facilities, and systems or groups of information systems;

        `(4) security awareness training developed in accordance with the requirements issued under section 3553(b) to inform individuals with access to agency information systems, including information security employees, contractors, and other users of information systems that support the operations and assets of the agency, of--

            `(A) information security risks associated with their activities;

            `(B) their responsibilities in complying with agency policies and procedures designed to reduce those risks; and

            `(C) requirements for fulfilling privacy, civil rights, civil liberties, and other information oversight responsibilities;

        `(5) security testing and evaluation commensurate with risk and impact that includes--

            `(A) risk-based continuous monitoring of the operational status and security of agency information systems to enable evaluation of the effectiveness of and compliance with information security policies, procedures, and practices, including a relevant and appropriate selection of management, operational, and technical controls of information systems identified in the inventory required under section 3505(c);

            `(B) penetration testing exercises and operational evaluations in accordance with the requirements issued under section 3553(b) to evaluate whether the agency adequately protects against, detects, and responds to incidents;

            `(C) vulnerability scanning, intrusion detection and prevention, and penetration testing, in accordance with the requirements issued under section 3553(b); and

            `(D) any other periodic testing and evaluation, in accordance with the requirements issued under section 3553(b);

        `(6) a process for ensuring that remedial actions are taken to mitigate information security vulnerabilities commensurate with risk and impact, and otherwise address any deficiencies in the information security policies, procedures, and practices of the agency;

        `(7) policies and procedures to ensure detection, mitigation, reporting, and responses to information security incidents, in accordance with the policies and directives issued under section 3553(b), including--

            `(A) ensuring timely internal reporting of information security incidents;

            `(B) establishing and maintaining appropriate technical capabilities to detect and mitigate risks associated with information security incidents;

            `(C) notifying and consulting with the entity designated by the Secretary under section 3553(b)(6); and

            `(D) notifying and consulting with--

                `(i) law enforcement agencies and relevant Offices of Inspectors General; and

                `(ii) any other entity, in accordance with law and as directed by the President; and

        `(8) plans and procedures to ensure continuity of operations for information systems that support the operations and assets of the agency.

    `(c) Agency Reporting- The head of each agency shall--

        `(1) report annually to the Secretary on the adequacy and effectiveness of information security policies, procedures, and practices, including--

            `(A) compliance of the agency with the requirements of this subchapter;

            `(B) a conclusion as to the effectiveness of the information security policies, procedures, and practices of the agency based on a determination of the aggregate effect of identified deficiencies;

            `(C) an identification and analysis of, including actions and plans to address, any significant deficiencies identified in such policies, procedures and practices; and

            `(D) any information or evaluation required under the reporting requirements issued under section 3553(b);

        `(2) make the report required under paragraph (1) available to the appropriate authorization and appropriations committees of Congress and the Comptroller General of the United States; and

        `(3) address the adequacy and effectiveness of the information security policies, procedures, and practices of the agency as required for management and budget plans and reports, as appropriate.

    `(d) Communications and System Traffic- Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the head of each agency is authorized to allow the Secretary, or a private entity providing assistance to the Secretary under section 3553, to acquire, intercept, retain, use, and disclose communications, system traffic, records, or other information transiting to or from or stored on an agency information system for the purpose of protecting agency information and information systems from information security threats or mitigating the threats in connection with the implementation of the information security capabilities authorized by paragraph (3) or (4) of section 3553(b).

`Sec. 3555. Annual assessments

    `(a) In General- Except as provided in subsection (c), the Secretary shall conduct periodic assessments of the information security programs and practices of agencies based on the annual agency reports required under section 3554(c), the annual independent evaluations required under section 3556, the results of any continuous monitoring, and other available information.

    `(b) Contents- Each assessment conducted under subsection (a) shall--

        `(1) assess the effectiveness of agency information security policies, procedures, and practices;

        `(2) provide an assessment of the status of agency information system security for the Federal Government as a whole; and

        `(3) include recommendations for improving information system security for an agency or the Federal Government as a whole.

    `(c) Certain Information Systems-

        `(1) NATIONAL SECURITY SYSTEMS- A periodic assessment conducted under subsection (a) relating to a national security system shall be prepared as directed by the President.

        `(2) SPECIFIC AGENCIES- Periodic assessments conducted under subsection (a) shall be prepared in accordance with governmentwide reporting requirements by--

            `(A) the Secretary of Defense for information systems under the control of the Department of Defense;

            `(B) the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency for information systems under the control of the Central Intelligence Agency; and

            `(C) the Director of National Intelligence for information systems under the control of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence.

    `(d) Agency-specific Assessments- Each assessment conducted under subsection (a) that relates, in whole or in part, to the information systems of an agency shall be made available to the head of the agency.

    `(e) Protection of Information- In conducting assessments under subsection (a), the Secretary shall take appropriate actions to ensure the protection of information which, if disclosed, may adversely affect information security. Such protections shall be commensurate with the risk and comply with all applicable laws and policies.

    `(f) Report to Congress- The Secretary, in coordination with the Secretary of Defense, the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, and the Director of National Intelligence, shall evaluate and submit to Congress an annual report on the adequacy and effectiveness of the information security programs and practices assessed under this section.

`Sec. 3556. Independent evaluations

    `(a) In General- Not less than once every 2 years, an independent evaluation shall be performed of the information security program and practices of each agency in accordance with the guidance developed under subsection (d) to determine the effectiveness of the programs and practices in addressing risk.

    `(b) Contents- Each evaluation performed under subsection (a) shall include--

        `(1) testing of the effectiveness of information security policies, procedures, and practices of a representative subset of the information systems of the agency;

        `(2) an assessment of compliance with this subchapter and any significant deficiencies; and

        `(3) a conclusion as to the effectiveness of the information security policies, procedures, and practices of the agency in addressing risk based on a determination of the aggregate effect of identified deficiencies.

    `(c) Conduct of Independent Evaluations- An evaluation of an agency under subsection (a) shall be performed by--

        `(1) the Inspector General of the agency;

        `(2) at the discretion of the Inspector General of the agency, an independent entity entering a contract with the Inspector General to perform the evaluation; or

        `(3) if the agency does not have an Inspector General, an independent entity selected by the head of the agency, in consultation with the Secretary.

    `(d) Guidance- The Council of Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency, in consultation with the Secretary, the Comptroller General of the United States, and the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology, shall issue and maintain guidance for performing timely, cost-effective, and risk-based evaluations under subsection (a).

    `(e) Reports- The official or entity performing an evaluation of an agency under subsection (a) shall submit to Congress, the agency, and the Comptroller General of the United States a report regarding the evaluation. The head of the agency shall provide to the Secretary a report received under this subsection.

    `(f) National Security Systems- An evaluation under subsection (a) of a national security system shall be performed as directed by the President.

    `(g) Comptroller General- The Comptroller General of the United States shall periodically evaluate and submit to Congress reports on--

        `(1) the adequacy and effectiveness of the information security policies and practices of agencies; and

        `(2) implementation of this subchapter.

`Sec. 3557. National security systems

    `The head of each agency operating or exercising control of a national security system shall be responsible for ensuring that the agency--

        `(1) provides information security protections commensurate with the risk and magnitude of the harm resulting from the unauthorized use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction of the information contained in the national security system;

        `(2) implements information security policies and practices as required by standards and guidelines for national security systems issued in accordance with law and as directed by the President; and

        `(3) complies with this subchapter.

`Sec. 3558. Effect on existing law

    `Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to alter or amend any law regarding the authority of any head of an agency over the agency.'.

    (b) Technical and Conforming Amendment- The table of sections for chapter 35 of title 44 is amended by striking the matter relating to subchapters II and III and inserting the following:

`subchapter ii--information security

        `Sec. 3551. Purposes.

        `Sec. 3552. Definitions.

        `Sec. 3553. Federal information security authority and coordination.

        `Sec. 3554. Agency responsibilities.

        `Sec. 3555. Annual assessments.

        `Sec. 3556. Independent evaluations.

        `Sec. 3557. National security systems.

        `Sec. 3558. Effect on existing law.'.

SEC. 202. MANAGEMENT OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY.

    (a) In General- Section 11331 of title 40, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:

`Sec. 11331. Responsibilities for Federal information systems standards

    `(a) Definitions- In this section:

        `(1) FEDERAL INFORMATION SYSTEM- The term `Federal information system' means an information system used or operated by an executive agency, by a contractor of an executive agency, or by another entity on behalf of an executive agency.

        `(2) INFORMATION SECURITY- The term `information security' has the meaning given that term in section 3552 of title 44.

        `(3) NATIONAL SECURITY SYSTEM- The term `national security system' has the meaning given that term in section 3552 of title 44.

    `(b) Standards and Guidelines-

        `(1) AUTHORITY TO PRESCRIBE- Except as provided under paragraph (2), and based on the standards and guidelines developed by the National Institute of Standards and Technology under paragraphs (2) and (3) of section 20(a) of the National Institute of Standards and Technology Act (15 U.S.C. 278g-3(a)), the Secretary of Commerce, in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, shall prescribe standards and guidelines relating to Federal information systems.

        `(2) NATIONAL SECURITY SYSTEMS- Standards and guidelines for national security systems shall be developed, prescribed, enforced, and overseen as otherwise authorized by law and as directed by the President.

    `(c) Mandatory Requirements-

        `(1) AUTHORITY TO MAKE MANDATORY- The Secretary of Commerce may require executive agencies to comply with the standards prescribed under subsection (b)(1) to the extent determined necessary by the Secretary of Commerce to improve the efficiency of operation or security of Federal information systems.

        `(2) REQUIRED MANDATORY STANDARDS-

            `(A) IN GENERAL- The Secretary of Commerce shall require executive agencies to comply with the standards described in subparagraph (B).

            `(B) CONTENTS- The standards described in this subparagraph are information security standards that--

                `(i) provide minimum information security requirements as determined under section 20(b) of the National Institute of Standards and Technology Act (15 U.S.C. 278g-3(b)); and

                `(ii) are otherwise necessary to improve the security of Federal information and Federal information systems.

    `(d) Authority To Disapprove or Modify- The President may disapprove or modify the standards and guidelines prescribed under subsection (b)(1) if the President determines such action to be in the public interest. The authority of the President to disapprove or modify the standards and guidelines may be delegated to the Director of the Office of Management and Budget. Notice of a disapproval or modification under this subsection shall be published promptly in the Federal Register. Upon receiving notice of a disapproval or modification, the Secretary of Commerce shall immediately rescind or modify the standards or guidelines as directed by the President or the Director of the Office of Management and Budget.

    `(e) Exercise of Authority- To ensure fiscal and policy consistency, the Secretary of Commerce shall exercise the authority under this section subject to direction by the President and in coordination with the Director of the Office of Management and Budget.

    `(f) Application of More Stringent Standards- The head of an executive agency may employ standards for the cost-effective information security for Federal information systems of that agency that are more stringent than the standards prescribed by the Secretary of Commerce under subsection (b)(1) if the more stringent standards--

        `(1) contain any standards with which the Secretary of Commerce has required the agency to comply; and

        `(2) are otherwise consistent with the policies and directives issued under section 3553(b) of title 44.

    `(g) Decisions on Promulgation of Standards- The decision by the Secretary of Commerce regarding the promulgation of any standard under this section shall occur not later than 6 months after the submission of the proposed standard to the Secretary of Commerce by the National Institute of Standards and Technology, as provided under section 20 of the National Institute of Standards and Technology Act (15 U.S.C. 278g-3).'.

    (b) Technical and Conforming Amendments-

        (1) Section 3502(8)) of title 44, United States Code, is amended by inserting `hosting,' after `collection,';

        (2) The National Institute of Standards and Technology Act (15 U.S.C. 271 et seq.) is amended--

            (A) in section 20(a)(2) (15 U.S.C. 278g-3(a)(2)), by striking `section 3532(b)(2)' and inserting `section 3552(b)'; and

            (B) in section 21(b) (15 U.S.C. 278g-4(b))--

                (i) in paragraph (2), by inserting `, the Secretary of Homeland Security,' after `the Institute'; and

                (ii) in paragraph (3), by inserting `the Secretary of Homeland Security,' after `the Secretary of Commerce,'.

        (3) Section 1001(c)(1)(A) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 511(c)(1)(A)) is amended by striking `section 3532(3)' and inserting `section 3552(b)'.

        (4) Part IV of title 10, United States Code, is amended--

            (A) in section 2222(j)(5), by striking `section 3542(b)(2)' and inserting `section 3552(b)';

            (B) in section 2223(c)(3), by striking `section 3542(b)(2)' and inserting `section 3552(b)'; and

            (C) in section 2315, by striking `section 3542(b)(2)' and inserting `section 3552(b)'.

        (5) Section 8(d)(1) of the Cyber Security Research and Development Act (15 U.S.C. 7406(d)(1)) is amended by striking `section 3534(b)' and inserting `section 3554(b)'.

SEC. 203. SAVINGS PROVISIONS.

    (a) In General- Policies and compliance guidance issued by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget before the date of enactment of this Act under section 3543(a)(1) of title 44 (as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of this Act) shall continue in effect, according to their terms, until modified, terminated, superseded, or repealed under section 3553(b)(1) of title 44, as added by this Act.

    (b) Other Standards and Guidelines- Standards and guidelines issued by the Secretary of Commerce or by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget before the date of enactment of this Act under section 11331(b)(1) of title 40 (as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of this Act) shall continue in effect, according to their terms, until modified, terminated, superseded, or repealed under section 11331(b)(1), as added by this Act.

TITLE III--CLARIFYING AND STRENGTHENING EXISTING ROLES AND AUTHORITIES

SEC. 301. CONSOLIDATION OF EXISTING DEPARTMENTAL CYBER RESOURCES AND AUTHORITIES.

    (a) In General- Title II of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 121 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:

`Subtitle E--Cybersecurity

`SEC. 241. DEFINITIONS.

    `In this subtitle:

        `(1) AGENCY INFORMATION INFRASTRUCTURE- The term `agency information infrastructure' means the Federal information infrastructure of a particular Federal agency.

        `(2) CENTER- The term `Center' means the National Center for Cybersecurity and Communications established under section 242.

        `(3) COVERED CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE- The term `covered critical infrastructure' means a system or asset designated by the Secretary as covered critical infrastructure in accordance with the procedure established under section 103 of the Cybersecurity Act of 2012.

        `(4) DAMAGE- The term `damage' has the meaning given that term in section 1030(e) of title 18, United States Code.

        `(5) FEDERAL AGENCY- The term `Federal agency' has the meaning given the term `agency' in section 3502 of title 44, United States Code.

        `(6) FEDERAL CYBERSECURITY CENTER- The term `Federal cybersecurity center' has the meaning given that term in section 708 of the Cybersecurity Act of 2012.

        `(7) FEDERAL ENTITY- The term `Federal entity' has the meaning given that term in section 708 of the Cybersecurity Act of 2012.

        `(8) FEDERAL INFORMATION INFRASTRUCTURE- The term `Federal information infrastructure'--

            `(A) means information and information systems that are owned, operated, controlled, or licensed for use by, or on behalf of, any Federal agency, including information systems used or operated by another entity on behalf of a Federal agency; and

            `(B) does not include--

                `(i) a national security system; or

                `(ii) information and information systems that are owned, operated, controlled, or licensed for use by, or on behalf of, the Department of Defense, a military department, or another element of the intelligence community.

        `(9) INCIDENT- The term `incident' has the meaning given that term in section 3552 of title 44, United States Code.

        `(10) INFORMATION SECURITY- The term `information security' has the meaning given that term in section 3552 of title 44, United States Code.

        `(11) INFORMATION SYSTEM- The term `information system' has the meaning given that term in section 3502 of title 44, United States Code.

        `(12) INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY- The term `intelligence community' has the meaning given that term in section 3(4) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 401a(4)).

        `(13) NATIONAL SECURITY AND EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS COMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE- The term `national security and emergency preparedness communications infrastructure' means the systems supported or covered by the Office of Emergency Communications and the National Communications System on the date of enactment of the Cybersecurity Act of 2012 or otherwise described in Executive Order 12472, or any successor thereto, relating to national security and emergency preparedness communications functions.

        `(14) NATIONAL INFORMATION INFRASTRUCTURE- The term `national information infrastructure' means information and information systems--

            `(A) that are owned, operated, or controlled within or from the United States; and

            `(B) that are not owned, operated, controlled, or licensed for use by a Federal agency.

        `(15) NATIONAL SECURITY SYSTEM- The term `national security system' has the meaning given that term in section 3552 of title 44, United States Code.

        `(16) NON-FEDERAL ENTITY- The term `non-Federal entity' has the meaning given that term in section 708 of the Cybersecurity Act of 2012.

`SEC. 242. CONSOLIDATION OF EXISTING RESOURCES.

    `(a) Establishment- There is established within the Department a National Center for Cybersecurity and Communications.

    `(b) Transfer of Functions- There are transferred to the Center the National Cyber Security Division, the Office of Emergency Communications, and the National Communications System, including all the functions, personnel, assets, authorities, and liabilities of the National Cyber Security Division, the Office of Emergency Communications, and the National Communications System.

    `(c) Director- The Center shall be headed by a Director, who shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, and who shall report directly to the Secretary.

    `(d) Duties- The Director of the Center shall--

        `(1) manage Federal efforts to secure, protect, and ensure the resiliency of the Federal information infrastructure, national information infrastructure, and national security and emergency preparedness communications infrastructure of the United States, working cooperatively with appropriate government agencies and the private sector;

        `(2) support private sector efforts to secure, protect, and ensure the resiliency of the national information infrastructure;

        `(3) prioritize the efforts of the Center to address the most significant risks and incidents that have caused or are likely to cause damage to the Federal information infrastructure, the national information infrastructure, and national security and emergency preparedness communications infrastructure of the United States;

        `(4) ensure, in coordination with the privacy officer designated under subsection (j), the Privacy Officer appointed under section 222, and the Director of the Office of Civil Rights and Civil Liberties appointed under section 705, that the activities of the Center comply with all policies, regulations, and laws protecting the privacy and civil liberties of United States persons; and

        `(5) perform such other duties as the Secretary may require relating to the security and resiliency of the Federal information infrastructure, national information infrastructure, and the national security and emergency preparedness communications infrastructure of the United States.

    `(e) Authorities and Responsibilities of Center- The Center shall--

        `(1) engage in activities and otherwise coordinate Federal efforts to identify, protect against, remediate, and mitigate, respond to, and recover from cybersecurity threats, consequences, vulnerabilities and incidents impacting the Federal information infrastructure and the national information infrastructure, including by providing support to entities that own or operate national information infrastructure, at their request;

        `(2) conduct risk-based assessments of the Federal information infrastructure, and risk assessments of critical infrastructure;

        `(3) develop, oversee the implementation of, and enforce policies, principles, and guidelines on information security for the Federal information infrastructure, including exercise of the authorities under the Federal Information Security Management Act of 2002 (title III of Public Law 107-347; 116 Stat. 2946);

        `(4) evaluate and facilitate the adoption of technologies designed to enhance the protection of information infrastructure, including making such technologies available to entities that own or operate national information infrastructure, with or without reimbursement, as necessary to accomplish the purposes of this section;

        `(5) oversee the responsibilities related to national security and emergency preparedness communications infrastructure, including the functions of the Office of Emergency Communications and the National Communications System;

        `(6)(A) maintain comprehensive situational awareness of the security of the Federal information infrastructure and the national information infrastructure for the purpose of enabling and supporting activities under subparagraph (e)(1); and

        `(B) provide classified and unclassified information to entities that own or operate national information infrastructure to support efforts by such entities to secure such infrastructure and for enhancing overall situational awareness;

        `(7) serve as the focal point for, and foster collaboration between, the Federal Government, State and local governments, and private entities on matters relating to the security of the national information infrastructure;

        `(8) develop, in coordination with the Assistant Secretary for Infrastructure Protection, other Federal agencies, the private sector, and State and local governments a national incident response plan that details the roles of Federal agencies, State and local governments, and the private sector, and coordinate national cyber incident response efforts;

        `(9) consult, in coordination with the Secretary of State, with appropriate international partners to enhance the security of the Federal information infrastructure, national information infrastructure, and information infrastructure located outside the United States the disruption of which could result in national or regional catastrophic damage in the United States; and

        `(10) coordinate the activities undertaken by Federal agencies to--

            `(A) protect Federal information infrastructure and national information infrastructure; and

            `(B) prepare the Nation to respond to, recover from, and mitigate against risks of incidents involving such infrastructure; and

        `(11) perform such other duties as the Secretary may require relating to the security and resiliency of the Federal information infrastructure, national information infrastructure, and national security and emergency preparedness communications infrastructure of the United States.

    `(f) Use of Existing Mechanisms for Collaboration- To avoid unnecessary duplication or waste, in carrying out the authorities and responsibilities of the Center under this subtitle, to the maximum extent practicable, the Director of the Center shall make use of existing mechanisms for collaboration and information sharing, including mechanisms relating to the identification and communication of cybersecurity threats, vulnerabilities, and associated consequences, established by other components of the Department or other Federal agencies and the information sharing mechanisms established under title VII of the Cybersecurity Act of 2012.

    `(g) Deputy Directors-

        `(1) IN GENERAL- There shall be a Deputy Director appointed by the Secretary, who shall--

            `(A) have expertise in infrastructure protection; and

            `(B) ensure that the operations of the Center and the Office of Infrastructure Protection avoid duplication and use, to the maximum extent practicable, joint mechanisms for information sharing and coordination with the private sector.

        `(2) INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY- The Director of National Intelligence, with the concurrence of the Secretary, shall identify an employee of an element of the intelligence community to serve as a Deputy Director of the Center. The employee shall be detailed to the Center on a reimbursable basis for such period as is agreed to by the Director of the Center and the Director of National Intelligence, and, while serving as Deputy Director, shall report directly to the Director of the Center.

    `(h) Cybersecurity Exercise Program- The Director of the Center shall develop and implement a national cybersecurity exercise program with the participation of State and local governments, international partners of the United States, and the private sector.

    `(i) Liaison Officers-

        `(1) REQUIRED DETAIL OF LIAISON OFFICERS- The Secretary of Defense, the Attorney General, the Secretary of Commerce, and the Director of National Intelligence shall assign personnel to the Center to act as full-time liaisons.

        `(2) OPTIONAL DETAIL OF LIAISON OFFICERS- The head of any Federal agency not described in paragraph (1), with the concurrence of the Director of the Center, may assign personnel to the Center to act as liaisons.

        `(3) PRIVATE SECTOR LIAISON- The Director of the Center shall designate not less than 1 employee of the Center to serve as a liaison with the private sector.

    `(j) Privacy Officer- The Director of the Center, in consultation with the Secretary, shall designate a full-time privacy officer.

    `(k) Sufficiency of Resources Plan-

        `(1) REPORT- Not later than 120 days after the date of enactment of the Cybersecurity Act of 2012, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress and the Comptroller General of the United States a report on the resources and staff necessary to carry out fully the responsibilities under this subtitle, including the availability of existing resources and staff.

        `(2) COMPTROLLER GENERAL REVIEW- The Comptroller General of the United States shall evaluate the reasonableness and adequacy of the report submitted by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget under paragraph (1) and submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report regarding the same.

    `(l) No Right or Benefit- The provision of assistance or information under this section to governmental or private entities that own or operate critical infrastructure shall be at the discretion of the Secretary. The provision of certain assistance or information to a governmental or private entity pursuant to this section shall not create a right or benefit, substantive or procedural, to similar assistance or information for any other governmental or private entity.

`SEC. 243. DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY INFORMATION SHARING.

    `(a) In General-

        `(1) ASSESSMENT- Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of the Cybersecurity Act of 2012, the Director of the Center, in consultation with the private sector, relevant government agencies, and nongovernmental organizations, shall conduct an assessment of existing and proposed information sharing models to identify best practices for sharing information across government and with the private sector, including through cybersecurity exchanges designated pursuant to section 703 of the Cybersecurity Act of 2012.

        `(2) INFORMATION SHARING- The Director of the Center shall periodically review procedures established under subsection (b) and the program established in accordance with subsection (c) to ensure that classified and unclassified cybersecurity information, including information relating to threats, vulnerabilities, traffic, trends, incidents, and other anomalous activities affecting the Federal information infrastructure, national information infrastructure, or information systems, are being appropriately shared between and among appropriate Federal and non-Federal entities, including Federal cybersecurity centers, Federal and non-Federal network and security operations centers, cybersecurity exchanges, and non-Federal entities responsible for such information systems.

    `(b) Federal Agencies-

        `(1) INFORMATION SHARING PROGRAM- The Director of the Center, in consultation with the members of the Chief Information Officers Council established under section 3603 of title 44, United States Code, shall establish a program for sharing information with and between the Center and other Federal agencies that includes processes and procedures--

            `(A) under which the Director of the Center regularly shares with each Federal agency analyses and reports regarding the security of such agency information infrastructure and on the overall security of the Federal information infrastructure and information infrastructure that is owned, operated, controlled, or licensed for use by, or on behalf of, the Department of Defense, a military department, or another element of the intelligence community, which shall include means and methods of preventing, responding to, mitigating, and remediating cybersecurity threats and vulnerabilities; and

            `(B) under which Federal agencies provide the Director of the Center, upon request, with information concerning the security of the Federal information infrastructure, information infrastructure that is owned, operated, controlled, or licensed for use by, or on behalf of, the Department of Defense, a military department, or another element of the intelligence community, or the national information infrastructure necessary to carry out the duties of the Director of the Center under this subtitle or any other provision of law.

        `(2) ACCESS TO INFORMATION-

            `(A) IN GENERAL- The Director of the Center shall ensure--

                `(i) that the head of each Federal agency has timely access to data, including appropriate raw and processed data, regarding the information infrastructure of the Federal agency; and

                `(ii) to the greatest extent possible, that the head of each Federal agency is kept apprised of common trends in security compliance as well as the likelihood that a significant cybersecurity risk or incident could cause damage to the agency information infrastructure.

            `(B) COMPLIANCE- The head of a Federal agency shall comply with all processes and procedures established under this subsection regarding notification to the Director of the Center relating to incidents.

            `(C) IMMEDIATE NOTIFICATION REQUIRED- Unless otherwise directed by the President, any Federal agency with a national security system shall, consistent with the level of the risk, immediately notify the Director of the Center regarding any incident affecting the security of a national security system.

    `(c) Private Sector, State and Local Governments, and International Partners-

        `(1) INFORMATION SHARING PROGRAM- The Director of the Center shall establish a program for sharing cybersecurity threat and vulnerability information in support of activities under section 242(e)(1) between the Center, cybersecurity exchanges designated pursuant to section 703 of the Cybersecurity Act of 2012, State and local governments, the private sector, and international partners, which shall include processes and procedures that--

            `(A) expand and enhance the sharing of timely and actionable cybersecurity threat and vulnerability information by the Federal Government with owners and operators of the national information infrastructure;

            `(B) establish criteria under which owners or operators of covered critical infrastructure information systems shall share information about incidents affecting covered critical infrastructure, and other relevant data with the Federal Government;

            `(C) ensure voluntary information sharing with and from the private sector, State and local governments, and international partners of the United States on--

                `(i) cybersecurity threats, vulnerabilities, incidents, and anomalous activities affecting the national information infrastructure; and

                `(ii) means and methods of identifying, preventing, responding to, mitigating and remediating cybersecurity threats, and vulnerabilities;

            `(D) establish a method of accessing classified or unclassified information, as appropriate and in accordance with applicable laws protecting trade secrets, that will provide situational awareness of the security of the Federal information infrastructure and the national information infrastructure relating to cybersecurity threats, and vulnerabilities, including traffic, trends, incidents, damage, and other anomalous activities affecting the Federal information infrastructure or the national information infrastructure;

            `(E) establish guidance on the form, content, and priority of incident reports that shall be submitted under subsection (c)(1)(B), which shall--

                `(i) include appropriate mechanisms to protect personally identifiable information; and

                `(ii) prioritize the reporting of incidents based on the risk the incident poses to the disruption of the reliable operation of the covered critical infrastructure; and

            `(F) establish a procedure for notifying an information technology provider if a vulnerability is detected in the product or service produced by the information technology provider and, where possible, working with the information technology provider to remediate the vulnerability before any public disclosure of the vulnerability so as to minimize the opportunity for the vulnerability to be exploited.

        `(2) COORDINATION- In carrying out the duties under this subsection, the Director of the Center shall coordinate, as appropriate, with Federal and non-Federal entities engaged in similar information sharing efforts.

        `(3) EVALUATION OF ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED INFORMATION- The Director of the Center, in coordination with the Director of National Intelligence, shall conduct an annual evaluation of the sufficiency of access to classified information by owners and operators of national information infrastructure.

        `(4) EVALUATION- The Director of the Center shall create and promote a mechanism for owners and operators of national information infrastructure to provide feedback about the operations of the Center and recommendations for improvements of the Center, including recommendations to improve the sharing of classified and unclassified information.

        `(5) GUIDELINES- The Director of the Center, in consultation with the Attorney General, the Director of National Intelligence, and the Privacy Officer established under section 242(j), shall develop guidelines to protect the privacy and civil liberties of United States persons and intelligence sources and methods, while carrying out this subsection.

    `(d) Voluntarily Shared Information- Covered information, as defined in section 107 of the Cybersecurity Act of 2012, submitted to the Center in accordance with this subtitle shall be treated as voluntarily shared critical infrastructure information under section 214, except that the requirement of section 214 that the information be voluntarily submitted, including the requirement for an express statement, shall not be required for submissions of covered information.

    `(e) Limitation on Use of Voluntarily Submitted Information for Regulatory Enforcement Actions- A Federal entity may not use information submitted under this subtitle as evidence in a regulatory enforcement action against the individual or entity that lawfully submitted the information.

`SEC. 244. ACCESS TO INFORMATION.

    `Unless otherwise directed by the President--

        `(1) the Director of the Center shall have access to, receive, and analyze law enforcement information, intelligence information, terrorism information, and any other information in the possession of Federal agencies relevant to the security of the Federal information infrastructure, information infrastructure that is owned, operated, controlled, or licensed for use by, or on behalf of, the Department of Defense, a military department, or another element of the intelligence community, or national information infrastructure and, consistent with applicable law, may also receive such information, from State and local governments (including law enforcement agencies), and private entities, including information provided by any contractor to a Federal agency regarding the security of the agency information infrastructure; and

        `(2) any Federal agency in possession of law enforcement information, intelligence information, terrorism information, or any other information relevant to the security of the Federal information infrastructure, information infrastructure that is owned, operated, controlled, or licensed for use by, or on behalf of, the Department of Defense, a military department, or another element of the intelligence community, or national information infrastructure shall provide that information to the Director of the Center in a timely manner.

`SEC. 245. NATIONAL CENTER FOR CYBERSECURITY AND COMMUNICATIONS ACQUISITION AUTHORITIES.

    `(a) In General- The National Center for Cybersecurity and Communications is authorized to use the authorities under subsections (c)(1) and (d)(1)(B) of section 2304 of title 10, United States Code, instead of the authorities under subsections (a)(1) and (b)(2) of section 3304 of title 41, United States Code, subject to all other requirements of sections 3301 and 3304 of title 41, United States Code.

    `(b) Guidelines- Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of the Cybersecurity Act of 2012, the chief procurement officer of the Department of Homeland Security shall issue guidelines for use of the authority under subsection (a).

    `(c) Termination- The National Center for Cybersecurity and Communications may not use the authority under subsection (a) on and after the date that is 3 years after the date of enactment of this Act.

    `(d) Reporting-

        `(1) IN GENERAL- On a semiannual basis, the Director of the Center shall submit a report on use of the authority granted by subsection (a) to--

            `(A) the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and

            `(B) the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives.

        `(2) CONTENTS- Each report submitted under paragraph (1) shall include, at a minimum--

            `(A) the number of contract actions taken under the authority under subsection (a) during the period covered by the report; and

            `(B) for each contract action described in subparagraph (A)--

                `(i) the total dollar value of the contract action;

                `(ii) a summary of the market research conducted by the National Center for Cybersecurity and Communications, including a list of all offerors who were considered and those who actually submitted bids, in order to determine that use of the authority was appropriate; and

                `(iii) a copy of the justification and approval documents required by section 3304(e) of title 41, United States Code.

        `(3) CLASSIFIED ANNEX- A report submitted under this subsection shall be submitted in an unclassified form, but may include a classified annex, if necessary.

`SEC. 246. RECRUITMENT AND RETENTION PROGRAM FOR THE NATIONAL CENTER FOR CYBERSECURITY AND COMMUNICATIONS.

    `(a) Definitions- In this section:

        `(1) COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT- The term `collective bargaining agreement' has the meaning given that term in section 7103(a)(8) of title 5, United States Code.

        `(2) QUALIFIED EMPLOYEE- The term `qualified employee' means an employee who performs functions relating to the security of Federal systems and critical information infrastructure.

    `(b) General Authority-

        `(1) ESTABLISH POSITIONS, APPOINT PERSONNEL, AND FIX RATES OF PAY- The Secretary may exercise with respect to qualified employees of the Department the same authority of that the Secretary of Defense has with respect to civilian intelligence personnel under sections 1601, 1602, and 1603 of title 10, United States Code, to establish as positions in the excepted service, to appoint individuals to those positions, and fix pay. Such authority shall be exercised subject to the same conditions and limitations applicable to the Secretary of Defense with respect to civilian intelligence personnel of the Department of Defense.

        `(2) SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM- The Secretary may exercise with respect to qualified employees of the Department the same authority of the Secretary of Defense has with respect to civilian personnel under section 2200a of title 10, United States Code, to the same extent, and subject to the same conditions and limitations, that the Secretary of Defense may exercise such authority with respect to civilian personnel of the Department of Defense.

        `(3) PLAN FOR EXECUTION OF AUTHORITIES- Not later than 120 days after the date of enactment of this subtitle, the Secretary shall submit a report to the appropriate committees of Congress with a plan for the use of the authorities provided under this subsection.

        `(4) COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS- Nothing in paragraph (1) may be construed to impair the continued effectiveness of a collective bargaining agreement with respect to an office, component, subcomponent, or equivalent of the Department that is a successor to an office, component, subcomponent, or equivalent of the Department covered by the agreement before the succession.

        `(5) REQUIRED REGULATIONS- The Secretary, in coordination with the Director of the Center and the Director of the Office of Personnel Management, shall prescribe regulations for the administration of this section.

    `(c) Merit System Principles And Civil Service Protections: Applicability-

        `(1) APPLICABILITY OF MERIT SYSTEM PRINCIPLES- The Secretary shall exercise the authority under subsection (b) in a manner consistent with the merit system principles set forth in section 2301 of title 5, United States Code.

        `(2) CIVIL SERVICE PROTECTIONS- Section 1221, section 2302, and chapter 75 of title 5, United States Code, shall apply to the positions established under subsection (b)(1).

    `(d) Requirements- Before the initial exercise of any authority authorized under subsection (b)(1) the Secretary shall--

        `(1) seek input from affected employees, and the union representatives of affected employees as applicable, and Federal manager and professional associations into the design and implementation of a fair, credible, and transparent system for exercising any authority under subsection (b)(1);

        `(2) make a good faith attempt to resolve any employee concerns regarding proposed changes in conditions of employment through discussions with the groups described in paragraph (1);

        `(3) develop a program to provide training to supervisors of cybersecurity employees at the Department on the use of the new authorities, including actions, options, and strategies a supervisor may use in--

            `(A) developing and discussing relevant goals and objectives with the employee, communicating and discussing progress relative to performance goals and objectives, and conducting performance appraisals;

            `(B) mentoring and motivating employees, and improving employee performance and productivity;

            `(C) fostering a work environment characterized by fairness, respect, equal opportunity, and attention to the quality of work of the employees;

            `(D) effectively managing employees with unacceptable performance;

            `(E) addressing reports of a hostile work environment, reprisal, or harassment of or by another supervisor or employee; and

            `(F) otherwise carrying out the duties and responsibilities of a supervisor;

        `(4) develop a program to provide training to supervisors of cybersecurity employees at the Department on the prohibited personnel practices under section 2302 of title 5, United States Code, (particularly with respect to the practices described in paragraphs (1) and (8) of section 2302(b) of title 5, United States Code), employee collective bargaining and union participation rights, and the procedures and processes used to enforce employee rights; and

        `(5) develop a program under which experienced supervisors mentor new supervisors by--

            `(A) sharing knowledge and advice in areas such as communication, critical thinking, responsibility, flexibility, motivating employees, teamwork, leadership, and professional development; and

            `(B) pointing out strengths and areas for development.

    `(e) Supervisor Requirement-

        `(1) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in paragraph (2), not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of the Cybersecurity Act of 2012 and every 3 years thereafter, every supervisor of cybersecurity employees at the Department shall complete the programs established under paragraphs (3) and (4) of subsection (d).

        `(2) EXCEPTION- A supervisor of cybersecurity employees at the Department who is appointed after the date of enactment of the Cybersecurity Act of 2012 shall complete the programs established under paragraphs (3) and (4) of subsection (d) not later than 1 year after the date on which the supervisor is appointed to the position, and every 3 years thereafter.

        `(3) ONGOING PARTICIPATION- Participation by supervisors of cybersecurity employees at the Department in the program established under subsection (d)(5) shall be ongoing.

    `(f) Conversion to Competitive Service- In consultation with the Director of the Center, the Secretary may grant competitive civil service status to a qualified employee appointed to the excepted service under subsection (b) if that employee is employed in the Center or is transferring to the Center.

    `(g) Annual Report- Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this subtitle, and every year thereafter for 4 years, the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a detailed report that--

        `(1) discusses the process used by the Secretary in accepting applications, assessing candidates, ensuring adherence to veterans' preference, and selecting applicants for vacancies to be filled by a qualified employee;

        `(2) describes--

            `(A) how the Secretary plans to fulfill the critical need of the Department to recruit and retain qualified employees;

            `(B) the measures that will be used to measure progress; and

            `(C) any actions taken during the reporting period to fulfill such critical need;

        `(3) discusses how the planning and actions taken under paragraph (2) are integrated into the strategic workforce planning of the Department;

        `(4) provides metrics on actions occurring during the reporting period, including--

            `(A) the number of qualified employees hired by occupation and grade and level or pay band;

            `(B) the total number of veterans hired;

            `(C) the number of separations of qualified employees by occupation and grade and level or pay band;

            `(D) the number of retirements of qualified employees by occupation and grade and level or pay band; and

            `(E) the number and amounts of recruitment, relocation, and retention incentives paid to qualified employees by occupation and grade and level or pay band.

`SEC. 247. PROHIBITED CONDUCT.

    `None of the authorities provided under this subtitle shall authorize the Director of the Center, the Center, the Department, or any other Federal entity to--

        `(1) compel the disclosure of information from a private entity relating to an incident unless otherwise authorized by law; or

        `(2) intercept a wire, oral, or electronic communication (as those terms are defined in section 2510 of title 18, United States Code), access a stored electronic or wire communication, install or use a pen register or trap and trace device, or conduct electronic surveillance (as defined in section 101 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (50 U.S.C.1801)) relating to an incident unless otherwise authorized under chapter 119, chapter 121, or chapter 206 of title 18, United States Code, or the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (50 U.S.C. 1801 et seq.).'.

    (b) Technical and Conforming Amendment- The table of contents in section 1(b) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 101 et seq.) is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 237 the following:

`Subtitle E--Cybersecurity

        `Sec. 241. Definitions.

        `Sec. 242. Consolidation of existing resources.

        `Sec. 243. Department of Homeland Security information sharing.

        `Sec. 244. Access to information.

        `Sec. 245. National Center for Cybersecurity and Communications acquisition authorities.

        `Sec. 246. Recruitment and retention program for the National Center for Cybersecurity and Communications.

        `Sec. 247. Prohibited conduct.'.

TITLE IV--EDUCATION, RECRUITMENT, AND WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT

SEC. 401. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:

        (1) CYBERSECURITY MISSION- The term `cybersecurity mission' means activities that encompass the full range of threat reduction, vulnerability reduction, deterrence, international engagement, incident response, resiliency, and recovery policies and activities, including computer network operations, information assurance, law enforcement, diplomacy, military, and intelligence missions as such activities relate to the security and stability of cyberspace.

        (2) CYBERSECURITY MISSION OF A FEDERAL AGENCY- The term `cybersecurity mission of a Federal agency' means the portion of a cybersecurity mission that is the responsibility of a Federal agency.

SEC. 402. NATIONAL EDUCATION AND AWARENESS CAMPAIGN.

    (a) In General- The Secretary, in consultation with appropriate Federal agencies shall develop and implement outreach and awareness programs on cybersecurity, including--

        (1) in consultation with the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology--

            (A) a public education campaign to increase the awareness of cybersecurity, cyber safety, and cyber ethics, which shall include the use of the Internet, social media, entertainment, and other media to reach the public; and

            (B) an education campaign to increase the understanding of State and local governments and private sector entities of the benefits of ensuring effective risk management of the information infrastructure versus the costs of failure to do so and methods to mitigate and remediate vulnerabilities; and

        (2) in coordination with the Secretary of Commerce, development of a program to publicly recognize or identify products, services, and companies, including owners and operators, that meet the highest standards of cybersecurity.

    (b) Considerations- In carrying out the authority described in subsection (a), the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary, and the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology shall leverage existing programs designed to inform the public of safety and security of products or services, including self-certifications and independently-verified assessments regarding the quantification and valuation of information security risk.

SEC. 403. NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY COMPETITION AND CHALLENGE.

    (a) Talent Competition and Challenge-

        (1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary of Homeland Security and the Secretary of Commerce shall establish a program to conduct competitions and challenges and ensure the effective operation of national and statewide competitions and challenges that seek to identify, develop, and recruit talented individuals to work in Federal agencies, State and local government agencies, and the private sector to perform duties relating to the security of the Federal information infrastructure or the national information infrastructure.

        (2) PARTICIPATION- Participants in the competitions and challenges of the program established under paragraph (1) shall include--

            (A) students enrolled in grades 9 through 12;

            (B) students enrolled in a postsecondary program of study leading to a baccalaureate degree at an institution of higher education;

            (C) students enrolled in a postbaccalaureate program of study leading to an institution of higher education;

            (D) institutions of higher education and research institutions;

            (E) veterans; and

            (F) other groups or individuals as the Secretary of Homeland Security and the Secretary of Commerce determine appropriate.

        (3) SUPPORT OF OTHER COMPETITIONS AND CHALLENGES- The program established under paragraph (1) may support other competitions and challenges not established under this subsection through affiliation and cooperative agreements with--

            (A) Federal agencies;

            (B) regional, State, or school programs supporting the development of cyber professionals;

            (C) State, local, and tribal governments; or

            (D) other private sector organizations.

        (4) AREAS OF TALENT- The program established under paragraph (1) shall seek to identify, develop, and recruit exceptional talent relating to--

            (A) ethical hacking;

            (B) penetration testing;

            (C) vulnerability assessment;

            (D) continuity of system operations;

            (E) cyber forensics;

            (F) offensive and defensive cyber operations; and

            (G) other areas to fulfill the cybersecurity mission as the Director determines appropriate.

        (5) INTERNSHIPS- The Director of the Office of Personnel Management shall establish, in coordination with the Director of the National Center for Cybersecurity and Communications, a program to provide, where appropriate, internships or other work experience in the Federal government to the winners of the competitions and challenges.

    (b) National Research and Development Competition and Challenge-

        (1) IN GENERAL- The Director of the National Science Foundation, in consultation with appropriate Federal agencies, shall establish a program of cybersecurity competitions and challenges to stimulate innovation in basic and applied cybersecurity research, technology development, and prototype demonstration that has the potential for application to the information technology activities of the Federal Government.

        (2) PARTICIPATION- Participants in the competitions and challenges of the program established under paragraph (1) shall include--

            (A) students enrolled in grades 9 through 12;

            (B) students enrolled in a postsecondary program of study leading to a baccalaureate degree at an institution of higher education;

            (C) students enrolled in a postbaccalaureate program of study leading to an institution of higher education;

            (D) institutions of higher education and research institutions;

            (E) veterans; and

            (F) other groups or individuals as the Director of the National Science Foundation determines appropriate.

        (3) TOPICS- In selecting topics for competitions and challenges held as part of the program established under paragraph (1), the Director--

            (A) shall consult widely both within and outside the Federal Government; and

            (B) may empanel advisory committees.

        (4) INTERNSHIPS- The Director of the Office of Personnel Management shall establish, in coordination with the Director of the National Science Foundation, a program to provide, where appropriate, internships or other work experience in the Federal government to the winners of the competitions and challenges held as part of the program established under paragraph (1).

SEC. 404. FEDERAL CYBER SCHOLARSHIP-FOR-SERVICE PROGRAM.

    (a) In General- The Director of the National Science Foundation, in coordination with the Secretary, shall establish a Federal Cyber Scholarship-for-Service program to recruit and train the next generation of information technology professionals, industry control system security professionals, and security managers to meet the needs of the cybersecurity mission for the Federal Government and State, local, and tribal governments.

    (b) Program Description and Components- The program established under subsection (a) shall--

        (1) incorporate findings from the assessment and development of the strategy under section 405;

        (2) provide not more than 1,000 scholarships per year, to students who are enrolled in a program of study at an institution of higher education leading to a degree or specialized program certification in the cybersecurity field, in an amount that covers each student's tuition and fees at the institution and provides the student with an additional stipend;

        (3) require each scholarship recipient, as a condition of receiving a scholarship under the program, to enter into an agreement under which the recipient agrees to work in the cybersecurity mission of a Federal, State, local, or tribal agency for a period equal to the length of the scholarship following receipt of the student's degree if offered employment in that field by a Federal, State, local, or tribal agency;

        (4) provide a procedure by which the National Science Foundation or a Federal agency may, consistent with regulations of the Office of Personnel Management, request and fund security clearances for scholarship recipients, including providing for clearances during summer internships and after the recipient receives the degree; and

        (5) provide opportunities for students to receive temporary appointments for meaningful employment in the cybersecurity mission of a Federal agency during school vacation periods and for internships.

    (c) Hiring Authority-

        (1) IN GENERAL- For purposes of any law or regulation governing the appointment of individuals in the Federal civil service, upon receiving a degree for which an individual received a scholarship under this section, the individual shall be--

            (A) hired under the authority provided for in section 213.3102(r) of title 5, Code of Federal Regulations; and

            (B) exempt from competitive service.

        (2) COMPETITIVE SERVICE POSITION- Upon satisfactory fulfillment of the service term of an individual hired under paragraph (1), the individual may be converted to a competitive service position without competition if the individual meets the requirements for that position.

    (d) Eligibility- To be eligible to receive a scholarship under this section, an individual shall--

        (1) be a citizen or lawful permanent resident of the United States;

        (2) demonstrate a commitment to a career in improving the security of information infrastructure; and

        (3) have demonstrated a high level of proficiency in mathematics, engineering, or computer sciences.

    (e) Repayment- If a recipient of a scholarship under this section does not meet the terms of the scholarship program, the recipient shall refund the scholarship payments in accordance with rules established by the Director of the National Science Foundation, in coordination with the Secretary.

    (f) Evaluation and Report- The Director of the National Science Foundation shall evaluate and report periodically to Congress on the success of recruiting individuals for the scholarships and on hiring and retaining those individuals in the public sector workforce.

SEC. 405. ASSESSMENT OF CYBERSECURITY FEDERAL WORKFORCE.

    (a) In General- The Director of the Office of Personnel Management and the Secretary, in coordination with the Director of National Intelligence, the Secretary of Defense, and the Chief Information Officers Council established under section 3603 of title 44, United States Code, shall assess the readiness and capacity of the Federal workforce to meet the needs of the cybersecurity mission of the Federal Government.

    (b) Strategy-

        (1) IN GENERAL- Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Director of the Office of Personnel Management, in consultation with the Director of the National Center for Cybersecurity and Communications and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, shall develop a comprehensive workforce strategy that enhances the readiness, capacity, training, and recruitment and retention of cybersecurity personnel of the Federal Government.

        (2) CONTENTS- The strategy developed under paragraph (1) shall include--

            (A) a 5-year plan on recruitment of personnel for the Federal workforce; and

            (B) a 10-year projections of Federal workforce needs.

    (c) Updates- The Director of the Office of Personnel Management, in consultation with the Director of the National Center for Cybersecurity and Communications and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, shall update the strategy developed under subsection (b) as needed.

SEC. 406. FEDERAL CYBERSECURITY OCCUPATION CLASSIFICATIONS.

    (a) In General- Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Director of the Office of Personnel Management, in coordination with the Director of the National Center for Cybersecurity and Communications, shall develop and issue comprehensive occupation classifications for Federal employees engaged in cybersecurity missions.

    (b) Applicability of Classifications- The Director of the Office of Personnel Management shall ensure that the comprehensive occupation classifications issued under subsection (a) may be used throughout the Federal Government.

SEC. 407. TRAINING AND EDUCATION.

    (a) Definition- In this section, the term `agency information infrastructure' means the Federal information infrastructure of a Federal agency.

    (b) Training-

        (1) FEDERAL GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES AND FEDERAL CONTRACTORS- The Director of the Office of Personnel Management, in coordination with the Secretary, the Director of National Intelligence, the Secretary of Defense, and the Chief Information Officers Council established under section 3603 of title 44, United States Code, shall establish a cybersecurity awareness and education curriculum that shall be required for all Federal employees and contractors engaged in the design, development, or operation of an agency information infrastructure or the Federal information infrastructure.

        (2) CONTENTS- The curriculum established under paragraph (1) shall include, at a minimum--

            (A) role-based security awareness training;

            (B) recommended cybersecurity practices;

            (C) cybersecurity recommendations for traveling abroad;

            (D) unclassified counterintelligence information;

            (E) information regarding industrial espionage;

            (F) information regarding malicious activity online;

            (G) information regarding cybersecurity and law enforcement;

            (H) identity management information;

            (I) information regarding supply chain security;

            (J) information security risks associated with the activities of Federal employees and contractors; and

            (K) the responsibilities of Federal employees and contractors in complying with policies and procedures designed to reduce information security risks identified under subparagraph (J).

        (3) FEDERAL CYBERSECURITY PROFESSIONALS- The Director of the Office of Personnel Management in conjunction with the Secretary, the Director of National Intelligence, the Secretary of Defense, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, and, as appropriate, colleges, universities, and nonprofit organizations with cybersecurity training expertise, shall develop a program to provide training to improve and enhance the skills and capabilities of Federal employees engaged in the cybersecurity mission, including training specific to the acquisition workforce.

        (4) HEADS OF FEDERAL AGENCIES- Not later than 30 days after the date on which an individual is appointed to a position at level I or II of the Executive Schedule, the Secretary and the Director of National Intelligence shall provide that individual with a cybersecurity threat briefing.

        (5) CERTIFICATION- The head of each Federal agency shall include in the annual report required under section 3554(c) of title 44, United States Code, as amended by this Act, a certification regarding whether all employees and contractors of the Federal agency have completed the training required under this subsection.

    (c) Education-

        (1) FEDERAL EMPLOYEES- The Director of the Office of Personnel Management, in coordination with the Secretary of Education, the Director of the National Science Foundation, and the Director of the National Center for Cybersecurity and Communications, shall develop and implement a strategy to provide Federal employees who work in cybersecurity missions with the opportunity to obtain additional education.

        (2) K THROUGH 12 EDUCATION- The Secretary of Education, in coordination with the Director of the National Center for Cybersecurity and Communications and State and local governments, shall develop model curriculum standards, guidelines, and recommended courses to address cyber safety, cybersecurity, and cyber ethics for students in kindergarten through grade 12.

        (3) INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER EDUCATION AND CAREER AND TECHNICAL INSTITUTIONS-

            (A) SECRETARY OF EDUCATION- The Secretary of Education, in coordination with the Secretary, and after consultation with appropriate private entities, shall--

                (i) develop model curriculum standards and guidelines to address cyber safety, cybersecurity, and cyber ethics for all students enrolled in institutions of higher education, and all students enrolled in career and technical institutions, in the United States; and

                (ii) analyze and develop recommended courses for students interested in pursuing careers in information technology, communications, computer science, engineering, mathematics, and science, as those subjects relate to cybersecurity.

            (B) OFFICE OF PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT- The Director of the Office of Personnel Management, in coordination with the Director of the National Center for Cybersecurity and Communications, shall develop strategies and programs--

                (i) to recruit students enrolled in institutions of higher education, and students enrolled in career and technical institutions in the United States to serve as Federal employees engaged in cybersecurity missions; and

                (ii) that provide internship and part-time work opportunities with the Federal Government for students enrolled in institutions of higher education and career and technical institutions in the United States.

SEC. 408. CYBERSECURITY INCENTIVES.

    The head of each Federal agency shall adopt best practices, developed by the Office of Personnel Management, regarding effective ways to educate and motivate employees of the Federal Government to demonstrate leadership in cybersecurity, including--

        (1) promotions and other nonmonetary awards; and

        (2) publicizing information sharing accomplishments by individual employees and, if appropriate, the tangible benefits that resulted.

TITLE V--RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

SEC. 501. FEDERAL CYBERSECURITY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.

    (a) Fundamental Cybersecurity Research- The Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy (referred to in this section as the `Director'), in coordination with the Secretary and the head of any relevant Federal agency, shall develop a national cybersecurity research and development plan.

    (b) Requirements- The plan required to be developed under subsection (a) shall encourage computer and information science and engineering research to meet challenges in cybersecurity, including--

        (1) how to design and build complex software-intensive systems that are secure and reliable when first deployed;

        (2) how to test and verify that software, whether developed locally or obtained from a third party, is free of significant known security flaws;

        (3) how to test and verify that software obtained from a third party correctly implements stated functionality, and only that functionality;

        (4) how to guarantee the privacy of the identity, information, or lawful transactions of an individual when stored in distributed systems or transmitted over networks;

        (5) how to build new protocols to enable the Internet to have robust security as one of the key capabilities of the Internet;

        (6) how to determine the origin of a message transmitted over the Internet;

        (7) how to support privacy in conjunction with improved security;

        (8) how to address the growing problem of insider threat; and

        (9) how improved consumer education and digital literacy initiatives can address human factors that contribute to cybersecurity.

    (c) Secure Coding Research- The Director shall support research--

        (1) that evaluates selected secure coding education and improvement programs; and

        (2) of new methods of integrating secure coding improvement into the core curriculum of computer science programs and of other programs where graduates of such programs have a substantial probability of developing software after graduation.

    (d) Assessment of Secure Coding Education in Colleges and Universities-

        (1) REPORT- Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Director shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Science and Technology of the House of Representatives a report on the state of secure coding education in institutions of higher education of the United States for each institution that received National Science Foundation funding in excess of $1,000,000 during fiscal year 2011.

        (2) CONTENTS OF REPORT- The report required under paragraph (1) shall include--

            (A) the number of students who earned baccalaureate degrees in computer science or in each other program where graduates have a substantial probability of being engaged in software design or development after graduation;

            (B) the percentage of the students described in subparagraph (A) who completed substantive secure coding education or improvement programs during their undergraduate experience; and

            (C) descriptions of the length and content of the education and improvement programs and an evaluation of the effectiveness of those programs based on the students' scores on standard tests of secure coding and design skills.

    (e) Cybersecurity Modeling and Test Beds-

        (1) REVIEW- Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Director shall conduct a review of cybersecurity test beds in existence on the date of enactment of this Act.

        (2) ESTABLISHMENT OF PROGRAM-

            (A) IN GENERAL- Based on the results of the review conducted under paragraph (1), the Director shall establish a program to award grants to institutions of higher education to establish cybersecurity test beds capable of realistic modeling of real-time cyber attacks and defenses.

            (B) REQUIREMENT- The test beds established under subparagraph (A) shall be sufficiently large in order to model the scale and complexity of real world networks and environments.

        (3) PURPOSE- The purpose of the program established under paragraph (2) shall be to support the rapid development of new cybersecurity defenses, techniques, and processes by improving understanding and assessing the latest technologies in a real-world environment.

    (f) Coordination With Other Research Initiatives- The Director shall--

        (1) ensure that the research and development program carried out under this section is consistent with any strategy to increase the security and resilience of cyberspace; and

        (2) to the extent practicable, coordinate research and development activities with other ongoing research and development security-related initiatives, including research being conducted by--

            (A) the National Institute of Standards and Technology;

            (B) the Department;

            (C) the National Academy of Sciences;

            (D) other Federal agencies;

            (E) other Federal and private research laboratories, research entities, and universities and institutions of higher education, and relevant nonprofit organizations; and

            (F) international partners of the United States.

    (g) NSF Computer and Network Security Research Grant Areas- Section 4(a)(1) of the Cyber Security Research and Development Act (15 U.S.C. 7403(a)(1)) is amended--

        (1) in subparagraph (H), by striking `and' at the end;

        (2) in subparagraph (I), by striking the period at the end and inserting a semicolon; and

        (3) by adding at the end the following:

            `(J) secure fundamental protocols that are at the heart of inter-network communications and data exchange;

            `(K) secure software engineering and software assurance, including--

                `(i) programming languages and systems that include fundamental security features;

                `(ii) portable or reusable code that remains secure when deployed in various environments;

                `(iii) verification and validation technologies to ensure that requirements and specifications have been implemented; and

                `(iv) models for comparison and metrics to assure that required standards have been met;

            `(L) holistic system security that--

                `(i) addresses the building of secure systems from trusted and untrusted components;

                `(ii) proactively reduces vulnerabilities;

                `(iii) addresses insider threats; and

                `(iv) supports privacy in conjunction with improved security;

            `(M) monitoring and detection; and

            `(N) mitigation and rapid recovery methods.'.

    (h) Cybersecurity Faculty Development Traineeship Program- Section 5(e)(9) of the Cyber Security Research and Development Act (15 U.S.C. 7404(e)(9)) is amended by striking `2003 through 2007' and inserting `2012 through 2014'.

    (i) Networking and Information Technology Research and Development Program- Section 204(a)(1) of the High-Performance Computing Act of 1991 (15 U.S.C. 5524(a)(1)) is amended--

        (1) in subparagraph (B), by striking `and' at the end; and

        (2) by adding at the end the following:

            `(D) develop and propose standards and guidelines, and develop measurement techniques and test methods, for enhanced cybersecurity for computer networks and common user interfaces to systems; and'.

SEC. 502. HOMELAND SECURITY CYBERSECURITY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.

    Subtitle D of title II of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 161 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:

`SEC. 238. CYBERSECURITY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.

    `(a) Establishment of Research and Development Program- The Under Secretary for Science and Technology, in coordination with the Director of the National Center for Cybersecurity and Communications, shall carry out a research and development program for the purpose of improving the security of information infrastructure.

    `(b) Eligible Projects- The research and development program carried out under subsection (a) may include projects to--

        `(1) advance the development and accelerate the deployment of more secure versions of fundamental Internet protocols and architectures, including for the secure domain name addressing system and routing security;

        `(2) improve and create technologies for detecting and analyzing attacks or intrusions, including analysis of malicious software;

        `(3) improve and create mitigation and recovery methodologies, including techniques for containment of attacks and development of resilient networks and systems;

        `(4) develop and support infrastructure and tools to support cybersecurity research and development efforts, including modeling, test beds, and data sets for assessment of new cybersecurity technologies;

        `(5) assist the development and support of technologies to reduce vulnerabilities in process control systems;

        `(6) understand human behavioral factors that can affect cybersecurity technology and practices;

        `(7) test, evaluate, and facilitate, with appropriate protections for any proprietary information concerning the technologies, the transfer of technologies associated with the engineering of less vulnerable software and securing the information technology software development lifecycle;

        `(8) assist the development of identity management and attribution technologies;

        `(9) assist the development of technologies designed to increase the security and resiliency of telecommunications networks;

        `(10) advance the protection of privacy and civil liberties in cybersecurity technology and practices; and

        `(11) address other risks identified by the Director of the National Center for Cybersecurity and Communications.

    `(c) Coordination With Other Research Initiatives- The Under Secretary for Science and Technology--

        `(1) shall ensure that the research and development program carried out under subsection (a) is consistent with any strategy to increase the security and resilience of cyberspace;

        `(2) shall, to the extent practicable, coordinate the research and development activities of the Department with other ongoing research and development security-related initiatives, including research being conducted by--

            `(A) the National Institute of Standards and Technology;

            `(B) the National Science Foundation;

            `(C) the National Academy of Sciences;

            `(D) other Federal agencies;

            `(E) other Federal and private research laboratories, research entities, and universities and institutions of higher education, and relevant nonprofit organizations; and

            `(F) international partners of the United States;

        `(3) shall carry out any research and development project under subsection (a) through a reimbursable agreement with an appropriate Federal agency, if the Federal agency--

            `(A) is sponsoring a research and development project in a similar area; or

            `(B) has a unique facility or capability that would be useful in carrying out the project;

        `(4) may make grants to, or enter into cooperative agreements, contracts, other transactions, or reimbursable agreements with, the entities described in paragraph (2); and

        `(5) shall submit a report to the appropriate committees of Congress on a review of the cybersecurity activities, and the capacity, of the national laboratories and other research entities available to the Department to determine if the establishment of a national laboratory dedicated to cybersecurity research and development is necessary.'.

TITLE VI--FEDERAL ACQUISITION RISK MANAGEMENT STRATEGY

SEC. 601. FEDERAL ACQUISITION RISK MANAGEMENT STRATEGY.

    (a) In General- The Secretary, in coordination with relevant private sector and academic experts and each Federal entity described in paragraphs (1) through (9) of subsection (b), shall develop and periodically update an acquisition risk management strategy designed to ensure, based on mission criticality and cost effectiveness, the security of the Federal information infrastructure.

    (b) Coordination- In developing the acquisition risk management strategy required under subsection (a), the Secretary shall coordinate with--

        (1) the Secretary of Defense;

        (2) the Secretary of Commerce;

        (3) the Secretary of State;

        (4) the Director of National Intelligence;

        (5) the Administrator of General Services;

        (6) the Administrator for Federal Procurement Policy;

        (7) the members of the Chief Information Officers Council established under section 3603 of title 44, United States Code;

        (8) the Chief Acquisition Officers Council established under section 1311 of title 41, United States Code; and

        (9) the Chief Financial Officers Council established under section 302 of the Chief Financial Officers Act of 1990 (31 U.S.C. 901 note).

    (c) Elements- The risk management strategy developed under subsection (a) shall--

        (1) address risks in the acquisition of any part of the Federal information infrastructure; and

        (2) include developing processes that--

            (A) incorporate all-source intelligence analysis into assessments of the integrity of the supply chain for the Federal information infrastructure;

            (B) incorporate internationally recognized standards, guidelines, and best practices, including those developed by the private sector, for supply chain integrity;

            (C) enhance capabilities to test and evaluate software and hardware within or for use in the Federal information infrastructure, and, where appropriate, make the capabilities available for use by the private sector;

            (D) protect the intellectual property and trade secrets of suppliers of information and communications technology products and services;

            (E) share with the private sector, to the fullest extent possible, the risks identified in the supply chain and working with the private sector to mitigate those threats as identified;

            (F) identify specific acquisition practices of Federal agencies that increase risks to the supply chain and develop a process to provide recommendations for revisions to those processes; and

            (G) to the maximum extent practicable, promote the ability of Federal agencies to procure authentic commercial off-the-shelf information and communications technology products and services from a diverse pool of suppliers, consistent with the preferences for the acquisition of commercial items under section 2377 of title 10, United States Code, and section 3307 of title 41, United States Code.

SEC. 602. AMENDMENTS TO CLINGER-COHEN PROVISIONS TO ENHANCE AGENCY PLANNING FOR INFORMATION SECURITY NEEDS.

    Chapter 113 of title 40, United States Code, is amended--

        (1) in section 11302--

            (A) in subsection (f), by striking `technology.' and inserting `technology, including information technology or network information security requirements.';

            (B) in subsection (i)--

                (i) by inserting `, including information security requirements,' after `information resources management'; and

                (ii) by adding at the end the following: `The Administrator for Federal Procurement Policy, in coordination with the Chief Information Officers Council and the Federal Acquisition Institute, shall ensure that contracting officers and the individuals preparing descriptions of the Government requirements and statements of work have adequate training in information security requirements, including in information technology security contracts.';

            (C) in subsection (j), by adding at the end the following: `The Director shall review and report on possible impediments in the acquisition process or elsewhere that are acting to slow agency uptake of the newest, most secure technologies.'; and

            (D) by adding at the end the following:

    `(l) Multiple Award Schedule for Information Security- The Administrator of General Services shall develop a special item number under Schedule 70 for information security products and services and consolidate those products and services under that special item number to promote acquisition.

    `(m) Reducing the Use of Counterfeit Products- Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of the Cybersecurity Act of 2012, the Director shall issue guidance requiring, to the extent practicable, Federal agencies to purchase information technology products only through the authorized channels or distributors of a supplier.'; and

        (2) in section 11312(b)(3), by inserting `, information security improvement,' after `risk-adjusted return on investment'.

TITLE VII--INFORMATION SHARING

SEC. 701. AFFIRMATIVE AUTHORITY TO MONITOR AND DEFEND AGAINST CYBERSECURITY THREATS.

    Notwithstanding chapter 119, 121, or 206 of title 18, United States Code, the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (50 U.S.C. 1801 et seq.), and the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 151 et seq.), any private entity may--

        (1) monitor information systems of the entity and information that is stored on, processed by, or transiting the information systems for cybersecurity threats;

        (2) monitor a third party's information systems and information that is stored on, processed by, or transiting the information systems for cybersecurity threats, if the third party lawfully authorizes the monitoring;

        (3) operate countermeasures on information systems of the entity to protect the information systems and information that is stored on, processed by, or transiting the information systems; and

        (4) operate countermeasures on a third party's information systems to protect the third party's information systems and information that is stored on, processed by, or transiting the information systems, if the third party lawfully authorizes the countermeasures.

SEC. 702. VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE OF CYBERSECURITY THREAT INDICATORS AMONG PRIVATE ENTITIES.

    (a) Authority to Disclose- Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any private entity may disclose lawfully obtained cybersecurity threat indicators to any other private entity.

    (b) Use and Protection of Information- A private entity disclosing or receiving cybersecurity threat indicators under subsection (a)--

        (1) shall make reasonable efforts to safeguard communications, records, system traffic, or other information that can be used to identify specific persons from unauthorized access or acquisition;

        (2) shall comply with any lawful restrictions placed on the disclosure or use of cybersecurity threat indicators by the disclosing entity, including, if requested, the removal of information that can be used to identify specific persons from such indicators;

        (3) may not use the cybersecurity threat indicators to gain an unfair competitive advantage to the detriment of the entity that authorized such sharing; and

        (4) may only use, retain, or further disclose the cybersecurity threat indicators for the purpose of protecting an information system or information that is stored on, processed by, or transiting an information system from cybersecurity threats or mitigating the threats.

SEC. 703. CYBERSECURITY EXCHANGES.

    (a) Designation of Cybersecurity Exchanges- The Secretary, in consultation with the Director of National Intelligence, the Attorney General, and the Secretary of Defense, shall establish--

        (1) a process for designating appropriate Federal entities (such as 1 or more Federal cybersecurity centers) and non-Federal entities as cybersecurity exchanges;

        (2) procedures to facilitate and encourage the sharing of classified and unclassified cybersecurity threat indicators with designated cybersecurity exchanges and other appropriate Federal entities and non-Federal entities; and

        (3) a process for identifying certified entities authorized to receive classified cybersecurity threat indicators in accordance with paragraph (2).

    (b) Purpose- The purpose of a cybersecurity exchange is to efficiently receive and distribute cybersecurity threat indicators in accordance with this title.

    (c) Requirement for a Lead Federal Cybersecurity Exchange-

        (1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary, in consultation with the Director of National Intelligence, the Attorney General, and the Secretary of Defense, shall designate a Federal entity as the lead cybersecurity exchange to serve as the focal point within the Federal Government for cybersecurity information sharing among Federal entities and with non-Federal entities.

        (2) RESPONSIBILITIES- The lead cybersecurity exchange designated under paragraph (1) shall--

            (A) receive and distribute cybersecurity threat indicators in accordance with this title;

            (B) facilitate information sharing, interaction, and collaboration among and between--

                (i) Federal entities;

                (ii) State, local, tribal, and territorial governments;

                (iii) private entities;

                (iv) academia;

                (v) international partners, in consultation with the Secretary of State; and

                (vi) other cybersecurity exchanges;

            (C) disseminate timely and actionable cybersecurity threat, vulnerability, mitigation, and warning information, including alerts, advisories, indicators, signatures, and mitigation and response measures, to improve the security and protection of information systems;

            (D) coordinate with other Federal and non-Federal entities, as appropriate, to integrate information from Federal and non-Federal entities, including Federal cybersecurity centers, non-Federal network or security operation centers, other cybersecurity exchanges, and non-Federal entities that disclose cybersecurity threat indicators under section 704(a) to provide situational awareness of the United States information security posture and foster information security collaboration among information system owners and operators;

            (E) conduct, in consultation with private entities and relevant Federal and other governmental entities, regular assessments of existing and proposed information sharing models to eliminate bureaucratic obstacles to information sharing and identify best practices for such information sharing; and

            (F) coordinate with other Federal entities, as appropriate, to compile and analyze information about risks and incidents that threaten information systems, including information voluntarily submitted in accordance with section 704(a) or otherwise in accordance with applicable laws.

        (3) SCHEDULE FOR DESIGNATION-

            (A) INITIAL DESIGNATION- Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall designate a lead cybersecurity exchange under paragraph (1).

            (B) INTERIM DESIGNATION- The National Cybersecurity and Communications Integration Center of the Department shall serve as the interim lead cybersecurity exchange until the Secretary designates a lead cybersecurity exchange under paragraph (1).

    (d) Additional Federal Cybersecurity Exchanges- In accordance with the process and procedures established under subsection (a), the Secretary, in consultation with the Director of National Intelligence, the Attorney General, and the Secretary of Defense, may designate additional existing Federal entities as cybersecurity exchanges, if the cybersecurity exchanges are subject to the requirements for use, retention, and disclosure of information by a cybersecurity exchange under section 704(b) and the special requirements for Federal entities under section 704(g).

    (e) Requirements for Non-Federal Cybersecurity Exchanges-

        (1) IN GENERAL- In considering whether to designate a non-Federal entity as a cybersecurity exchange to receive cybersecurity threat indicators under section 704(a), and what entity to designate, the Secretary shall consider the following factors:

            (A) The net effect that an additional cybersecurity exchange would have on the overall cybersecurity of the United States.

            (B) Whether the designation could substantially improve the overall cybersecurity of the United States by serving as a hub for receiving and sharing cybersecurity threat indicators, including the capacity of the non-Federal entity for performing those functions.

            (C) The capacity of the non-Federal entity to safeguard cybersecurity threat indicators from unauthorized disclosure and use.

            (D) The adequacy of the policies and procedures of the non-Federal entity to protect personally identifiable information from unauthorized disclosure and use.

            (E) The ability of the non-Federal entity to sustain operations using entirely non-Federal sources of funding.

        (2) REGULATIONS- The Secretary may promulgate regulations as may be necessary to carry out this subsection.

    (f) Construction With Other Authorities- Nothing in this section may be construed to alter the authorities of a Federal cybersecurity center, unless such cybersecurity center is acting in its capacity as a designated cybersecurity exchange.

    (g) No New Bureaucracies- Nothing in this section may be construed to authorize additional layers of Federal bureaucracy for the receipt and disclosure of cybersecurity threat indicators.

    (h) Report on Designation of Cybersecurity Exchange- Not later than 90 days after the date on which the Secretary designates the initial cybersecurity exchange under this section, the Secretary, the Director of National Intelligence, the Attorney General, and the Secretary of Defense shall jointly submit to Congress a written report that--

        (1) describes the processes established to designate cybersecurity exchanges under subsection (a);

        (2) summarizes the policies and procedures established under section 704(g); and

        (3) if the Secretary has not designated any non-Federal entities as a cybersecurity exchange, provides recommendations concerning the advisability of designating non-Federal entities as cybersecurity exchanges.

SEC. 704. VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE OF CYBERSECURITY THREAT INDICATORS TO A CYBERSECURITY EXCHANGE.

    (a) Authority to Disclose- Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a non-Federal entity may disclose lawfully obtained cybersecurity threat indicators to a cybersecurity exchange.

    (b) Use, Retention, and Disclosure of Information by a Cybersecurity Exchange- Except as provided in subsection (g), a cybersecurity exchange may only use, retain, or further disclose information provided under subsection (a) in order to protect information systems from cybersecurity threats or mitigate cybersecurity threats.

    (c) Use and Protection of Information Received From a Cybersecurity Exchange- A non-Federal entity receiving cybersecurity threat indicators from a cybersecurity exchange--

        (1) shall make reasonable efforts to safeguard communications, records, system traffic, and other information that can be used to identify specific persons from unauthorized access or acquisition;

        (2) shall comply with any lawful restrictions placed on the disclosure or use of cybersecurity threat indicators by the cybersecurity exchange or a third party, if the cybersecurity exchange received the information from the third party, including, if requested, the removal of information that can be used to identify specific persons from the indicators;

        (3) may not use the cybersecurity threat indicators to gain an unfair competitive advantage to the detriment of the third party that authorized the sharing; and

        (4) may only use, retain, or further disclose the cybersecurity threat indicators for the purpose of protecting an information system or information that is stored on, processed by, or transiting an information system from cybersecurity threats or mitigating such threats.

    (d) Exemption From Public Disclosure- Any cybersecurity threat indicator disclosed by a non-Federal entity to a cybersecurity exchange under subsection (a) shall be--

        (1) exempt from disclosure under section 552(b)(3) of title 5, United States Code, or any comparable State law; and

        (2) treated as voluntarily shared information under section 552 of title 5, United States Code, or any comparable State law.

    (e) Exemption From Ex Parte Limitations- Any cybersecurity threat indicator disclosed by a non-Federal entity to a cybersecurity exchange under subsection (a) shall not be subject to the rules of any governmental entity or judicial doctrine regarding ex parte communications with a decision making official.

    (f) Exemption From Waiver of Privilege- Any cybersecurity threat indicator disclosed by a non-Federal entity to a cybersecurity exchange under subsection (a) may not be construed to be a waiver of any applicable privilege or protection provided under Federal, State, tribal, or territorial law, including any trade secret protection.

    (g) Special Requirements for Federal Entities-

        (1) PERMITTED DISCLOSURES- Notwithstanding any other provision of law and consistent with the requirements of this subsection, a Federal entity that lawfully intercepts, acquires, or otherwise obtains or possesses any communication, record, or other information from its electronic communications system, may disclose that communication, record, or other information if--

            (A) the disclosure is made for the purpose of--

                (i) protecting the information system of a Federal entity from cybersecurity threats; or

                (ii) mitigating cybersecurity threats to--

                    (I) another component, officer, employee, or agent of the Federal entity with cybersecurity responsibilities;

                    (II) any cybersecurity exchange; or

                    (III) a private entity that is acting as a provider of electronic communication services, remote computing service, or cybersecurity services to a Federal entity; and

            (B) the recipient of the communication, record, or other information agrees to comply with the Federal entity's lawful requirements regarding the protection and further disclosure of the information, except to the extent the requirements are inconsistent with the policies and procedures developed by the Secretary and approved by the Attorney General under paragraph (4).

        (2) DISCLOSURE TO LAW ENFORCEMENT- A cybersecurity exchange that is a Federal entity may disclose cybersecurity threat indicators received under subsection (a) to a law enforcement entity if--

            (A) the information appears to relate to a crime which has been, is being, or is about to be committed; and

            (B) the disclosure is permitted under the procedures developed by the Secretary and approved by the Attorney General under paragraph (4).

        (3) FURTHER DISCLOSURE AND USE OF INFORMATION BY A FEDERAL ENTITY-

            (A) AUTHORITY TO RECEIVE CYBERSECURITY THREAT INDICATORS- A Federal entity that is not a cybersecurity exchange may receive cybersecurity threat indicators from a cybersecurity exchange under section 703, but shall only use or retain the cybersecurity threat indicators in a manner that is consistent with this subsection in order--

                (i) to protect information systems from cybersecurity threats and to mitigate cybersecurity threats; or

                (ii) to disclose the cybersecurity threat indicators to a law enforcement agency under paragraph (2).

            (B) AUTHORITY TO USE CYBERSECURITY THREAT INDICATORS- A Federal entity that is not a cybersecurity exchange shall ensure, by written agreement, that when disclosing cybersecurity threat indicators to a non-Federal entity under this section, the non-Federal entity shall use or retain the cybersecurity threat indicators in a manner that is consistent with the requirements under section 702(b) on the use and protection of information and paragraph (2) of this subsection.

        (4) PRIVACY AND CIVIL LIBERTIES-

            (A) REQUIREMENT FOR POLICIES AND PROCEDURES- In consultation with privacy and civil liberties experts, the Director of National Intelligence, and the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary shall develop and periodically review policies and procedures governing the receipt, retention, use, and disclosure of cybersecurity threat indicators by a Federal entity obtained in connection with activities authorized under this title, which shall--

                (i) minimize the impact on privacy and civil liberties, consistent with the need to protect information systems from cybersecurity threats and mitigate cybersecurity threats;

                (ii) reasonably limit the receipt, retention, use and disclosure of cybersecurity threat indicators associated with specific persons consistent with the need to carry out the responsibilities of this title, including establishing a process for the timely destruction of cybersecurity threat indicators that are received under this section that do not reasonably appear to be related to protecting information systems from cybersecurity threats and mitigating cybersecurity threats, unless the indicators appear to relate to a crime which has been, is being, or is about to be committed;

                (iii) include requirements to safeguard cybersecurity threat indicators that can be used to identify specific persons from unauthorized access or acquisition; and

                (iv) protect the confidentiality of cybersecurity threat indicators associated with specific persons to the greatest extent practicable and require recipients to be informed that such indicators may only be used for protecting information systems against cybersecurity threats, mitigating against cybersecurity threats, or disclosed to law enforcement under paragraph (2).

            (B) ADOPTION OF POLICIES AND PROCEDURES- The head of a Federal agency responsible for a Federal entity designated as a cybersecurity exchange under section 703 shall adopt and comply with the policies and procedures developed under this subsection.

            (C) REVIEW BY THE ATTORNEY GENERAL- Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Attorney General shall review and approve policies and procedures developed under this subsection.

            (D) PROVISION TO CONGRESS- The policies and procedures issued under this subsection and any amendments to such policies and procedures shall be provided to Congress.

        (5) OVERSIGHT-

            (A) REQUIREMENT FOR OVERSIGHT- The Secretary and the Attorney General shall establish a mandatory program to monitor and oversee compliance with the policies and procedures issued under this subsection.

            (B) NOTIFICATION OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL- The head of each Federal entity that receives information under this title shall--

                (i) comply with the policies and procedures developed by the Secretary and approved by the Attorney General under paragraph (4);

                (ii) promptly notify the Attorney General of significant violations of the policies and procedures; and

                (iii) provide the Attorney General with any information relevant to the violation that any Attorney General requires.

            (C) ANNUAL REPORT- On an annual basis, the Chief Privacy and Civil Liberties Officer of the Department of Justice and the Department of Homeland Security, in consultation with the most senior privacy and civil liberties officer or officers of any appropriate agencies, shall jointly submit to Congress a report assessing the privacy and civil liberties impact of the activities of the Federal Government conducted under this title.

        (6) PRIVACY AND CIVIL LIBERTIES OVERSIGHT BOARD- Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board shall submit to Congress and the President a report providing--

            (A) an assessment of the privacy and civil liberties impact of the activities carried out by the Federal entities under this title; and

            (B) recommendations for improvements to or modifications of the law to address privacy and civil liberties concerns.

        (7) SANCTIONS- The heads of Federal entities shall develop and enforce appropriate sanctions for officers, employees, or agents of the Federal entities who conduct activities under this title--

            (A) outside the normal course of their specified duties;

            (B) in a manner inconsistent with the discharge of the responsibilities of the Federal entities; or

            (C) in contravention of the requirements, policies and procedures required under this subsection.

SEC. 705. SHARING OF CLASSIFIED CYBERSECURITY THREAT INDICATORS.

    (a) Sharing of Classified Cybersecurity Threat Indicators- The procedures established under section 703(a)(2) shall provide that classified cybersecurity threat indicators may only be--

        (1) shared with certified entities;

        (2) shared in a manner that is consistent with the need to protect the national security of the United States;

        (3) shared with a person with an appropriate security clearance to receive the cybersecurity threat indicators; and

        (4) used by a certified entity in a manner that protects the cybersecurity threat indicators from unauthorized disclosure.

    (b) Requirement for Guidelines- Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall issue guidelines providing that appropriate Federal officials may, as the Director considers necessary to carry out this title--

        (1) grant a security clearance on a temporary or permanent basis to an employee of a certified entity;

        (2) grant a security clearance on a temporary or permanent basis to a certified entity and approval to use appropriate facilities; or

        (3) expedite the security clearance process for a certified entity or employee of a certified entity, if appropriate, in a manner consistent with the need to protect the national security of the United States.

    (c) Distribution of Procedures and Guidelines- Following the establishment of the procedures under section 703(a)(2) and the issuance of the guidelines under subsection (b), the Secretary and the Director of National Intelligence shall expeditiously distribute the procedures and guidelines to--

        (1) appropriate governmental entities and private entities;

        (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, the Committee on the Judiciary, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and

        (3) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, the Committee on Homeland Security, the Committee on the Judiciary, and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives.

SEC. 706. LIMITATION ON LIABILITY AND GOOD FAITH DEFENSE FOR CYBERSECURITY ACTIVITIES.

    (a) In General- No civil or criminal cause of action shall lie or be maintained in any Federal or State court against any entity, and any such action shall be dismissed promptly, based on--

        (1) the cybersecurity monitoring activities authorized by paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 701; or

        (2) the voluntary disclosure of a lawfully obtained cybersecurity threat indicator--

            (A) to a cybersecurity exchange under section 704(a);

            (B) by a provider of cybersecurity services to a customer of the provider;

            (C) to a private entity or governmental entity that provides or manages critical infrastructure; or

            (D) to any other private entity under section 702(a), if the cybersecurity threat indicator is also disclosed within a reasonable time to a cybersecurity exchange.

    (b) Good Faith Defense- If a civil or criminal cause of action is not barred under subsection (a), good faith reliance that this title permitted the conduct complained of is a complete defense against any civil or criminal action brought under this title or any other law.

    (c) Limitation on Use of Cybersecurity Threat Indicators for Regulatory Enforcement Actions- No Federal entity may use a cybersecurity threat indicator received under this title as evidence in a regulatory enforcement action against the entity that lawfully shared the cybersecurity threat indicator with a cybersecurity exchange that is a Federal entity.

    (d) Delay of Notification Authorized for Law Enforcement or National Security Purposes- No civil or criminal cause of action shall lie or be maintained in any Federal or State court against any entity, and any such action shall be dismissed promptly, for a failure to disclose a cybersecurity threat indicator if--

        (1) the Attorney General determines that disclosure of a cybersecurity threat indicator would impede a civil or criminal investigation and submits a written request to delay notification for up to 30 days, except that the Attorney General may, by a subsequent written request, revoke such delay or extend the period of time set forth in the original request made under this paragraph if further delay is necessary; or

        (2) the Secretary, the Attorney General, or the Director of National Intelligence determines that disclosure of a cybersecurity threat indicator would threaten national or homeland security and submits a written request to delay notification, except that the Secretary, the Attorney General or the Director of National Intelligence may, by a subsequent written request, revoke such delay or extend the period of time set forth in the original request made under this paragraph if further delay is necessary.

    (e) Limitation on Liability for Failure to Act- No civil or criminal cause of action shall lie or be maintained in any Federal or State court against any private entity, or any officer, employee, or agent of such an entity, and any such action shall be dismissed promptly, for the reasonable failure to act on information received under this title.

    (f) Limitation on Protections- Any person who knowingly and willfully violates restrictions under this title shall not receive the protections under this title.

    (g) Private Right of Action- Nothing in this title may be construed to limit liability for a failure to comply with the requirements of section 702(b) and section 704(c) on the use and protection of information.

    (h) Defense for Breach of Contract- Compliance with lawful restrictions placed on the disclosure or use of cybersecurity threat indicators is a complete defense to any tort or breach of contract claim originating in a failure to disclose cybersecurity threat indicators to a third party.

SEC. 707. CONSTRUCTION; FEDERAL PREEMPTION.

    (a) Construction- Nothing in this title may be construed--

        (1) to permit the unauthorized disclosure of--

            (A) information that has been determined by the Federal Government pursuant to an Executive Order or statute to require protection against unauthorized disclosure for reasons of national defense or foreign relations;

            (B) any restricted data (as that term is defined in paragraph (y) of section 11 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2014));

            (C) information related to intelligence sources and methods; or

            (D) information that is specifically subject to a court order or a certification, directive, or other authorization by the Attorney General precluding such disclosure;

        (2) to limit or prohibit otherwise lawful disclosures of communications, records, or information by a private entity to a cybersecurity exchange or any other governmental or private entity not conducted under this title;

        (3) to limit the ability of a private entity or governmental entity to receive data about the information systems of the entity, including lawfully obtained cybersecurity threat indicators;

        (4) to authorize or prohibit any law enforcement, homeland security, or intelligence activities not otherwise authorized or prohibited under another provision of law;

        (5) to permit price-fixing, allocating a market between competitors, monopolizing or attempting to monopolize a market, boycotting, or exchanges of price or cost information, customer lists, or information regarding future competitive planning; or

        (6) to prevent a governmental entity from using information not acquired through a cybersecurity exchange for regulatory purposes.

    (b) Federal Preemption- This title supersedes any law or requirement of a State or political subdivision of a State that restricts or otherwise expressly regulates the provision of cybersecurity services or the acquisition, interception, retention, use or disclosure of communications, records, or other information by private entities to the extent such law contains requirements inconsistent with this title.

    (c) Preservation of Other State Law- Except as expressly provided, nothing in this title shall be construed to preempt the applicability of any other State law or requirement.

    (d) No Creation of a Right to Information- The provision of information to a non-Federal entity under this title shall not create a right or benefit to similar information by any other non-Federal entity.

    (e) Prohibition on Requirement to Provide Information to the Federal Government- Nothing in this title, except as expressly stated, may be construed to permit a Federal entity--

        (1) to require a non-Federal entity to share information with the Federal Government; or

        (2) to condition the disclosure of unclassified or classified cybersecurity threat indicators under this title with a non-Federal entity on the provision of cybersecurity threat information to the Federal Government.

    (f) Limitation on Use of Information- No cybersecurity threat indicators obtained under this title may be used, retained, or disclosed by a Federal entity or non-Federal entity, except as authorized under this title.

    (g) Declassification and Sharing of Information- Consistent with the exemptions from public disclosure of section 704(d), the Director of National Intelligence, in consultation with the Secretary, shall facilitate the declassification and sharing of information in the possession of a Federal entity that is related to cybersecurity threats, as the Director of National Intelligence determines appropriate.

    (h) Report on Implementation- Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary, the Director of National Intelligence, the Attorney General, and the Secretary of Defense shall jointly submit to Congress a report that--

        (1) describes the extent to which the authorities conferred by this title have enabled the Federal Government and the private sector to mitigate cybersecurity threats;

        (2) discloses any significant acts of noncompliance by a non-Federal entity with this title, with special emphasis on privacy and civil liberties, and any measures taken by the Federal Government to uncover such noncompliance;

        (3) describes in general terms the nature and quantity of information disclosed and received by governmental entities and private entities under this title; and

        (4) proposes changes to the law, including the definitions, authorities and requirements under this title, that are necessary to ensure the law keeps pace with the threat while protecting privacy and civil liberties.

    (i) Requirement for Annual Report- On an annual basis, the Director of National Intelligence shall provide a report to the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives on the implementation of section 705. Each report under this subsection, which shall be submitted in an unclassified form, but may include a classified annex, shall include a list of private entities that receive classified cybersecurity threat indicators under this title, except that the unclassified report shall not contain information that may be used to identify specific private entities unless such private entities consent to such identification.

SEC. 708. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:

        (1) CERTIFIED ENTITY- The term `certified entity' means a protected entity, a self-protected entity, or a provider of cybersecurity services that--

            (A) possesses or is eligible to obtain a security clearance, as determined by the Director of National Intelligence; and

            (B) is able to demonstrate to the Director of National Intelligence that the provider or entity can appropriately protect and use classified cybersecurity threat indicators.

        (2) COUNTERMEASURE- The term `countermeasure' means automated or manual actions with defensive intent to modify or block data packets associated with electronic or wire communications, internet traffic, program code, or other system traffic transiting to or from or stored on an information system for the purpose of protecting the information system from cybersecurity threats, conducted on an information system owned or operated by or on behalf of the party to be protected or operated by a private entity acting as a provider of electronic communication services, remote computing services, or cybersecurity services to the party to be protected.

        (3) CYBERSECURITY EXCHANGE- The term `cybersecurity exchange' means any governmental entity or private entity designated by the Secretary as a cybersecurity exchange under section 703(a).

        (4) CYBERSECURITY SERVICES- The term `cybersecurity services' means products, goods, or services intended to detect, mitigate, or prevent cybersecurity threats.

        (5) CYBERSECURITY THREAT- The term `cybersecurity threat' means any action that may result in unauthorized access to, exfiltration of, manipulation of, or impairment to the integrity, confidentiality, or availability of an information system or information that is stored on, processed by, or transiting an information system.

        (6) CYBERSECURITY THREAT INDICATOR- The term `cybersecurity threat indicator' means information--

            (A) that may be indicative of or describe--

                (i) malicious reconnaissance, including anomalous patterns of communications that reasonably appear to be transmitted for the purpose of gathering technical information related to a cybersecurity threat;

                (ii) a method of defeating a technical control;

                (iii) a technical vulnerability;

                (iv) a method of defeating an operational control;

                (v) a method of causing a user with legitimate access to an information system or information that is stored on, processed by, or transiting an information system to unwittingly enable the defeat of a technical control or an operational control;

                (vi) malicious cyber command and control;

                (vii) the actual or potential harm caused by an incident, including information exfiltrated as a result of subverting a technical control when it is necessary in order to identify or describe a cybersecurity threat;

                (viii) any other attribute of a cybersecurity threat, if disclosure of such attribute is not otherwise prohibited by law; or

                (ix) any combination thereof; and

            (B) from which reasonable efforts have been made to remove information that can be used to identify specific persons unrelated to the cybersecurity threat.

        (7) FEDERAL CYBERSECURITY CENTER- The term `Federal cybersecurity center' means the Department of Defense Cyber Crime Center, the Intelligence Community Incident Response Center, the United States Cyber Command Joint Operations Center, the National Cyber Investigative Joint Task Force, the National Security Agency/Central Security Service Threat Operations Center, or the United States Computer Emergency Readiness Team, or any successor to such a center.

        (8) FEDERAL ENTITY- The term `Federal entity' means a Federal agency, or any component, officer, employee, or agent of a Federal agency.

        (9) GOVERNMENTAL ENTITY- The term `governmental entity' means any Federal entity and agency or department of a State, local, tribal, or territorial government other than an educational institution, or any component, officer, employee, or agent of such an agency or department.

        (10) INFORMATION SYSTEM- The term `information system' means a discrete set of information resources organized for the collection, processing, maintenance, use, sharing, dissemination, or disposition of information, including communications with, or commands to, specialized systems such as industrial and process control systems, telephone switching and private branch exchange, and environmental control systems.

        (11) MALICIOUS CYBERCOMMAND AND CONTROL- The term `malicious cyber command and control' means a method for remote identification of, access to, or use of, an information system or information that is stored on, processed by, or transiting an information system associated with a known or suspected cybersecurity threat.

        (12) MALICIOUS RECONNAISSANCE- The term `malicious reconnaissance' means a method for actively probing or passively monitoring an information system for the purpose of discerning technical vulnerabilities of the information system, if such method is associated with a known or suspected cybersecurity threat.

        (13) MONITOR- The term `monitor' means the interception, acquisition, or collection of information that is stored on, processed by, or transiting an information system for the purpose of identifying cybersecurity threats.

        (14) NON-FEDERAL ENTITY- The term `non-Federal entity' means a private entity or a governmental entity other than a Federal entity.

        (15) OPERATIONAL CONTROL- The term `operational control' means a security control for an information system that primarily is implemented and executed by people.

        (16) PRIVATE ENTITY- The term `private entity' has the meaning given the term `person' in section 1 of title 1, United States Code, and does not include a governmental entity.

        (17) PROTECT- The term `protect' means actions undertaken to secure, defend, or reduce the vulnerabilities of an information system, mitigate cybersecurity threats, or otherwise enhance information security or the resiliency of information systems or assets.

        (18) PROTECTED ENTITY- The term `protected entity' means an entity, other than an individual, that contracts with a provider of cybersecurity services for goods or services to be used for cybersecurity purposes.

        (19) SELF-PROTECTED ENTITY- The term `self-protected entity' means an entity, other than an individual, that provides cybersecurity services to itself.

        (20) TECHNICAL CONTROL- The term `technical control' means a hardware or software restriction on, or audit of, access or use of an information system or information that is stored on, processed by, or transiting an information system that is intended to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of that system.

        (21) TECHNICAL VULNERABILITY- The term `technical vulnerability' means any attribute of hardware or software that could enable or facilitate the defeat of a technical control.

        (22) THIRD PARTY- The term `third party' includes Federal entities and non-Federal entities.

TITLE VIII--PUBLIC AWARENESS REPORTS

SEC. 801. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:

        (1) Information technology is central to the effectiveness, efficiency, and reliability of the industry and commercial services, Armed Forces and national security systems, and the critical infrastructure of the United States.

        (2) Cyber criminals, terrorists, and agents of foreign powers have taken advantage of the connectivity of the United States to inflict substantial damage to the economic and national security interests of the Nation.

        (3) The cybersecurity threat is sophisticated, relentless, and massive, exposing all consumers in the United States to the risk of substantial harm.

        (4) Businesses in the United States are bearing enormous losses as a result of criminal cyber attacks, depriving businesses of hard-earned profits that could be reinvested in further job-producing innovation.

        (5) Hackers continuously probe the networks of Federal and State agencies, the Armed Forces, and the commercial industrial base of the Armed Forces, and already have caused substantial damage and compromised sensitive and classified information.

        (6) Severe cybersecurity threats will continue, and will likely grow, as the economy of the United States grows more connected, criminals become increasingly sophisticated in efforts to steal from consumers, industries, and businesses in the United States, and terrorists and foreign nations continue to use cyberspace as a means of attack against the national and economic security of the United States.

        (7) Public awareness of cybersecurity threats is essential to cybersecurity defense. Only a well-informed public and Congress can make the decisions necessary to protect consumers, industries, and the national and economic security of the United States.

        (8) As of 2012, the level of public awareness of cybersecurity threats is unacceptably low. Only a tiny portion of relevant cybersecurity information is released to the public. Information about attacks on Federal Government systems is usually classified. Information about attacks on private systems is ordinarily kept confidential. Sufficient mechanisms do not exist to provide meaningful threat reports to the public in unclassified and anonymized form.

SEC. 802. REPORT ON CYBER INCIDENTS AGAINST GOVERNMENT NETWORKS.

    (a) Department of Homeland Security- Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report that--

        (1) summarizes major cyber incidents involving networks of Executive agencies (as defined in section 105 of title 5, United States Code), except for the Department of Defense;

        (2) provides aggregate statistics on the number of breaches of networks of Executive agencies, the volume of data exfiltrated, and the estimated cost of remedying the breaches; and

        (3) discusses the risk of cyber sabotage.

    (b) Department of Defense- Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a report that--

        (1) summarizes major cyber incidents against networks of the Department of Defense and the military departments;

        (2) provides aggregate statistics on the number of breaches against networks of the Department of Defense and the military departments, the volume of data exfiltrated, and the estimated cost of remedying the breaches; and

        (3) discusses the risk of cyber sabotage.

    (c) Form of Reports- Each report submitted under this section shall be in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex as necessary to protect sources, methods, and national security.

SEC. 803. REPORTS ON PROSECUTION FOR CYBERCRIME.

    (a) In General- Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Attorney General and the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation shall submit to Congress reports--

        (1) describing investigations and prosecutions by the Department of Justice relating to cyber intrusions or other cybercrimes the preceding year, including--

            (A) the number of investigations initiated relating to such crimes;

            (B) the number of arrests relating to such crimes;

            (C) the number and description of instances in which investigations or prosecutions relating to such crimes have been delayed or prevented because of an inability to extradite a criminal defendant in a timely manner; and

            (D) the number of prosecutions for such crimes, including--

                (i) the number of defendants prosecuted;

                (ii) whether the prosecutions resulted in a conviction;

                (iii) the sentence imposed and the statutory maximum for each such crime for which a defendant was convicted; and

                (iv) the average sentence imposed for a conviction of such crimes;

        (2) identifying the number of employees, financial resources, and other resources (such as technology and training) devoted to the enforcement, investigation, and prosecution of cyber intrusions or other cybercrimes, including the number of investigators, prosecutors, and forensic specialists dedicated to investigating and prosecuting cyber intrusions or other cybercrimes; and

        (3) discussing any impediments under the laws of the United States or international law to prosecutions for cyber intrusions or other cybercrimes.

    (b) Updates- The Attorney General and the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation shall annually submit to Congress reports updating the reports submitted under subsection (a) at the same time the Attorney General and Director submit annual reports under section 404 of the Prioritizing Resources and Organization for Intellectual Property Act of 2008 (42 U.S.C. 3713d).

SEC. 804. REPORT ON RESEARCH RELATING TO SECURE DOMAIN.

    (a) In General- The Secretary shall enter into a contract with the National Research Council, or another federally funded research and development corporation, under which the Council or corporation shall submit to Congress reports on available technical options, consistent with constitutional and statutory privacy rights, for enhancing the security of the information networks of entities that own or manage critical infrastructure through--

        (1) technical improvements, including developing a secure domain; or

        (2) increased notice of and consent to the use of technologies to scan for, detect, and defeat cyber security threats, such as technologies used in a secure domain.

    (b) Timing- The contract entered into under subsection (a) shall require that the report described in subsection (a) be submitted--

        (1) not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act;

        (2) annually, after the first report submitted under subsection (a), for 3 years; and

        (3) more frequently, as determined appropriate by the Secretary in response to new risks or technologies that emerge.

SEC. 805. REPORT ON PREPAREDNESS OF FEDERAL COURTS TO PROMOTE CYBERSECURITY.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Attorney General, in coordination with the Administrative Office of the United States Courts, shall submit to Congress a report--

        (1) on whether Federal courts have granted timely relief in matters relating to botnets and other cybercrime and cyber security threats; and

        (2) that includes, as appropriate, recommendations on changes or improvements to--

            (A) the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure or the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure;

            (B) the training and other resources available to support the Federal judiciary;

            (C) the capabilities and specialization of courts to which such cases may be assigned; and

            (D) Federal civil and criminal laws.

SEC. 806. REPORT ON IMPEDIMENTS TO PUBLIC AWARENESS.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter for 3 years (or more frequently if determined appropriate by the Secretary) the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report on--

        (1) legal or other impediments to appropriate public awareness of--

            (A) the nature of, methods of propagation of, and damage caused by common cyber security threats such as computer viruses, phishing techniques, and malware;

            (B) the minimal standards of computer security necessary for responsible Internet use; and

            (C) the availability of commercial off the shelf technology that allows consumers to meet such levels of computer security;

        (2) a summary of the plans of the Secretary to enhance public awareness of common cyber security threats, including a description of the metrics used by the Department for evaluating the efficacy of public awareness campaigns; and

        (3) recommendations for congressional actions to address these impediments to appropriate public awareness of common cyber security threats.

SEC. 807. REPORT ON PROTECTING THE ELECTRICAL GRID OF THE UNITED STATES.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense and the Director of National Intelligence, shall submit to Congress a report on--

        (1) the threat of a cyber attack disrupting the electrical grid of the United States;

        (2) the implications for the national security of the United States if the electrical grid is disrupted;

        (3) the options available to the United States and private sector entities to quickly reconstitute electrical service to provide for the national security of the United States, and, within a reasonable time frame, the reconstitution of all electrical service within the United States; and

        (4) a plan to prevent disruption of the electric grid of the United States caused by a cyber attack.

TITLE IX--INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION

SEC. 901. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:

        (1) COMPUTER SYSTEM; COMPUTER DATA- The terms `computer system' and `computer data' have the meanings given those terms in chapter I of the Convention on Cybercrime.

        (2) CONVENTION ON CYBERCRIME- The term `Convention on Cybercrime' means the Council of Europe's Convention on Cybercrime, done at Budapest November 23, 2001 as ratified by the United States Senate on August 3, 2006 (Treaty 108-11) with any relevant reservations of declarations.

        (3) CYBER ISSUES- The term `cyber issues' means the full range of international policies designed to ensure an open, interoperable, secure, and reliable global information and communications infrastructure.

        (4) CYBERCRIME- The term `cybercrime' refers to criminal offenses relating to computer systems of computer data described in the Convention of Cybercrime.

        (5) RELEVANT FEDERAL AGENCIES- The term `relevant Federal agencies' means any Federal agency that has responsibility for combating cybercrime globally, including the Department of Commerce, the Department of Homeland Security, the Department of Justice, the Department of State, the Department of the Treasury, and the Office of the United States Trade Representative.

SEC. 902. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:

        (1) On February 2, 2010, Admiral Dennis C. Blair, the Director of National Intelligence, testified before the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate regarding the Annual Threat Assessment of the U.S. Intelligence Community, stating `The national security of the United States, our economic prosperity, and the daily functioning of our government are dependent on a dynamic public and private information infrastructure, which includes tele-communications, computer networks and systems, and the information residing within. This critical infrastructure is severely threatened. . . . We cannot protect cyberspace without a coordinated and collaborative effort that incorporates both the US private sector and our international partners.'

        (2) In a January 2010 speech on Internet freedom, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton stated: `Those who disrupt the free flow of information in our society, or any other, pose a threat to our economy, our government, and our civil society. Countries or individuals that engage in cyber attacks should face consequences and international condemnation. In an Internet-connected world, an attack on one nation's networks can be an attack on all. And by reinforcing that message, we can create norms of behavior among states and encourage respect for the global networked commons.'

        (3) November 2011 marked the tenth anniversary of the Convention on Cybercrime, the only multilateral agreement on cybercrime, to which the Senate provided advice and consent on August 3, 2006, and is currently ratified by over 30 countries.

        (4) The May 2009 White House Cyberspace Policy Review asserts `[t]he Nation also needs a strategy for cybersecurity designed to shape the international environment and bring like-minded nations together on a host of issues, such as technical standards and acceptable legal norms regarding territorial jurisdiction, sovereign responsibility, and use of force. International norms are critical to establishing a secure and thriving digital infrastructure.'

SEC. 903. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

    It is the sense of Congress that--

        (1) engagement with other countries to advance the cyberspace objectives of the United States should be an integral part of the conduct of United States foreign relations and diplomacy;

        (2) the cyberspace objectives of the United States include the full range of cyber issues, including issues related to governance, standards, cybersecurity, cybercrime, international security, human rights, and the free flow of information;

        (3) it is in the interest of the United States to work with other countries to build consensus on principles and standards of conduct that protect computer systems and users that rely on them, prevent and punish acts of cybercrime, and promote the free flow of information;

        (4) a comprehensive national cyberspace strategy must include tools for addressing threats to computer systems and acts of cybercrime from sources and by persons outside the United States;

        (5) developing effective solutions to international cyberspace threats requires engagement with foreign countries on a bilateral basis and through relevant regional and multilateral fora;

        (6) it is in the interest of the United States to encourage the development of effective frameworks for international cooperation to combat cyberthreats, and the development of foreign government capabilities to combat cyberthreats; and

        (7) the Secretary of State, in consultation with other relevant Federal agencies, should develop and lead Federal Government efforts to engage with other countries to advance the cyberspace objectives of the United States, including efforts to bolster an international framework of cyber norms, governance and deterrence.

SEC. 904. COORDINATION OF INTERNATIONAL CYBER ISSUES WITHIN THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT.

    The Secretary of State is authorized to designate a senior level official at the Department of State, to carry out the Secretary's responsibilities to--

        (1) coordinate the United States global diplomatic engagement on the full range of international cyber issues, including building multilateral cooperation and developing international norms, common policies, and responses to secure the integrity of cyberspace;

        (2) provide strategic direction and coordination for United States Government policy and programs aimed at addressing and responding to cyber issues overseas, especially in relation to issues that affect United States foreign policy and related national security concerns;

        (3) coordinate with relevant Federal agencies, including the Department, the Department of Defense, the Department of the Treasury, the Department of Justice, the Department of Commerce, and the intelligence community to develop interagency plans regarding international cyberspace, cybersecurity, and cybercrime issues; and

        (4) ensure that cyber issues, including cybersecurity and cybercrime, are included in the responsibilities of overseas Embassies and consulates of the United States, as appropriate.

SEC. 905. CONSIDERATION OF CYBERCRIME IN FOREIGN POLICY AND FOREIGN ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS.

    (a) Briefing-

        (1) IN GENERAL- Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State, after consultation with the heads of the relevant Federal agencies, shall provide a comprehensive briefing to relevant congressional committees--

            (A) assessing global issues, trends, and actors considered to be significant with respect to cybercrime;

            (B) assessing, after consultation with private industry groups, civil society organizations, and other relevant domestic or multilateral organizations, which shall be selected by the President based on an interest in combating cybercrime, means of enhancing multilateral or bilateral efforts in areas of significance--

                (i) to prevent and investigate cybercrime;

                (ii) to develop and share best practices with respect to directly or indirectly combating cybercrime; and

                (iii) to cooperate and take action with respect to the prevention, investigation, and prosecution of cybercrime; and

            (C) describing the steps taken by the United States to promote the multilateral or bilateral efforts described in subparagraph (B).

        (2) CONTRIBUTIONS FROM RELEVANT FEDERAL AGENCIES- Not later than 30 days before the date on which the briefing is to be provided under paragraph (1), the head of each relevant Federal agency shall consult with and provide to the Secretary of State relevant information appropriate for the briefing.

    (b) Periodic Updates- The Secretary of State shall provide updated information highlighting significant developments relating to the issues described in subsection (a), through periodic briefings to Congress.

    (c) Use of Foreign Assistance Programs-

        (1) FOREIGN ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS TO COMBAT CYBERCRIME- The Secretary of State is authorized to accord priority in foreign assistance to programs designed to combat cybercrime in a region or program of significance in order to better combat cybercrime by, among other things, improving the effectiveness and capacity of the legal and judicial systems and the capabilities of law enforcement agencies with respect to cybercrime.

        (2) SENSE OF THE CONGRESS WITH RESPECT TO BILATERAL AND MULTILATERAL ASSISTANCE- It is the sense of Congress that the Secretary of State should include programs designed to combat cybercrime in relevant bilateral or multilateral assistance programs administered or supported by the United States Government.